Tyson Beckford
Tyson Beckford (born December 19, 1970) is a Jamaican-American model and actor best known as a Ralph Lauren Polo model.
He was also the host of both seasons of the Bravo program Make Me a Supermodel.
Beckford has been described as one of the most successful male supermodels of all time, achieving fame and huge contracts similar to the female models who had huge success in the 1990s.


Early life
Beckford was born in Bronx, New York, on December 19, 1970, to a Jamaican mother, Hillary Dixon Hall, and a Panamanian father of Jamaican and Chinese-Jamaican descent, Lloyd Beckford.
Soon after he was born, his mother took the family back to Jamaica, where they lived for seven years before moving to Rochester, New York, where he attended and graduated from Pittsford Mendon High School.
During his school years, Tyson was often teased about his looks.


Career
In 1992, Erik Lauren Counsel of the hip hop magazine The Source approached Beckford "in Washington Square Park" about being "in a style piece" in the magazine New York City.
In an August 2021 VLADTV interview, Beckford clarified that nobody named Jeff Jones "discovered him" and said that "the person who gets the credit is Erik."
Confusion about his discovery might have happened after a 2005 People magazine interview, when Beckford stated that his career began as he was "minding his own business" in Manhattan's Washington Square Park, when scouts from the hip hop magazine The Source asked him to pose.
"I'm thinkin', 'Yeah, this is some porno magazine,'" he recalled, "but everything was legit."

In 1993, Beckford was recruited by Ralph Lauren as the front model for the company's Polo line of male sportswear.

Beckford was named "Man of the Year" in 1995 by cable television music channel VH1 and one of the "50 Most Beautiful People in the World" by People magazine.
He is represented by Soul Artist Management in New York City and D'management Group in Milan.
He was ranked at number 38 on VH1's 40 Hottest Hotties of the '90s.
In 2003, he appeared on the ABC network's celebrity reality game show I'm a Celebrity...
Get Me Out of Here!.
In September 2008, he supported the National RESPECT!
Campaign against domestic violence, recording a voice message for the Giverespect.org Web site, speaking about the importance of respect for others.
Beckford co-hosted the modeling contest Make Me a Supermodel on the television channel Bravo with fellow supermodel Niki Taylor.
The show chose Nicole Trunfio to join Beckford as a mentor to the model contestants for the show's second season.
Other judges included designer Catherine Malandrino, model Jenny Shimizu, photographer Perou, and model scout Marlon.
Beckford judged and mentored the contestants of the first few episodes of the Australian version of Make Me a Supermodel with model and former Miss Universe Jennifer Hawkins.
In 2012, he participated in Fox's dating game show The Choice.
He was one of the judges on the British version of America's Next Top Model.


Personal life
On June 6, 2005, Beckford was injured during a vehicle accident in Secaucus, New Jersey, in which his 2004 Dodge Ram SRT-10 struck a utility pole and caught fire.
He was taken to the Jersey City Medical Center and hospitalized for head trauma and cuts.
During an interview on The Oprah Winfrey Show, Tyson claimed the accident had a profound effect on his spirituality.

Beckford has been a resident of the New Jersey communities of Edgewater and West New York.
Beckford has a son (born 1998) from a relationship with stylist April Roomet, who appears on the E!
Television program Candy Girls.
Beckford is an ambassador for the nonprofit Kick 4 Life, an organization that uses the power of soccer to engage vulnerable youth in holistic care and support in Lesotho.


Filmography


Films


Television


Music videos


References


External links

Official website
Tyson Beckford at IMDb
Tyson Beckford at SKAM Artist

Shigeru Baba
Shigeru Baba (馬場滋, Baba Shigeru) (born January 19, 1948, in Nagoya, Japan) is a professional Go player.


Biography
Shigeru was a disciple of Toshio Sakai.
He plays in the Nagoya branch of the Nihon Ki-in, where he came close to winning the Okan title in 1980.


Runners-up


References
Nihon Ki-in profile (in Japanese)

Le Mont Saint Michel (clothing)
The work-wear brand Le Mont St Michel was launched in 1913 in Pontorson, just a few miles away from the famous abbey after which it was named.[1]


Company history
In 1920, Caroline Lesaffre founded a textile company in Wizernes (Pas-de-Calais), "Les Tricotages de l'Aa", which combined a factory with a school for young women whose fathers, brothers and husbands had not returned from World War I.
In 1964, Patrice Milan, Lessafre's grandson, took the reins of the company and modernised it by installing high-performance knitting machines.
A lover of French country estates, he bought the Chateau de Monthorin.
The Tricotages de l'Aa continued to prosper by manufacturing for well-known designers such as agnès b., Gerard Darel and Joseph.
In 1998, Alexandre Milan, succeeded his father as head of the company, acquired the tradename Le Mont Saint-Michel, combined the two companies and created a new brand under the Le Mont Saint-Michel name.


References


External links
Site Officiel
Collaboration Le Mont Saint Michel et Das Pop
Hope Hope
La maille emballe la mode
Le Mont St Michel, maille made in France

David Seymour
David Breen Seymour (born 24 June 1983) is a New Zealand politician who has served as the 21st deputy prime minister of New Zealand since 2025 and as the 1st minister for regulation since 2023.
A member of the ACT Party, he has served as its leader and Member of Parliament (MP) for Epsom since 2014.
Seymour spent his early years in Whangārei and joined the ACT Party while studying at the University of Auckland.
Following his graduation in 2006, he worked in the engineering industry.
Subsequently, he worked for conservative think tanks in Canada during the 2000s, before returning to New Zealand and standing unsuccessfully for election to Parliament in 2005 and 2011.
He entered the House of Representatives in 2014 as ACT's sole MP, after which he replaced Jamie Whyte as party leader.
Seymour's End of Life Choice bill was selected from the members' ballot on 8 June 2017 and was put to a referendum in October 2020.
This referendum was held in conjunction with the 2020 general election.
It passed with 65.91% of voters in support of the bill coming into force.
The bill came into force over a year after the referendum, on 7 November 2021.
Seymour was re-elected in 2017, returning as ACT's sole MP.
In 2020, he led ACT to one of its best results in the 2020, winning ten seats and retaining his Epsom electorate.
In the 2023 general election, Seymour was re-elected and the ACT Party increased its representation to 11 seats.
This was the best result in the party's history, with the party picking up an extra electorate seat in Tāmaki.
ACT subsequently formed a coalition government with the National and New Zealand First parties.
Under the coalition arrangement, the position of deputy prime minister was split between Winston Peters and Seymour.
Peters served until 31 May 2025, when he was succeeded by Seymour.
Seymour's views on the principles of the Treaty of Waitangi have led to robust debate across the political spectrum.
During the 2023 general election, he and the ACT party campaigned for a Treaty Principles Bill, followed by a referendum on the principles.
ACT proposed several changes to the principles, including the removal of any references to "partnership (co-governance)" (between the Crown and Māori) from the treaty's use in law and instead refer to "all New Zealanders".
As per the coalition agreement, National and New Zealand First supported the bill to select committee.
Ultimately, the bill was voted down on its second reading on 10 April 2025 by a vote of 11–112, with all ACT MPs voting in favour of the bill.


Early life
Seymour was born in Palmerston North on 24 June 1983.
His family moved to Whangārei when he was a child.
He is descended through his mother's father from a Māori great-great-great-grandmother, Maraea Te Inutoto, whose husband was Stephen Wrathall.
Te Inutoto was from Tauwhara marae at Waimate North and a member of the Ngāti Rehia hapū of Ngāpuhi.
The family's Māori ancestry was discovered through research by Seymour's great-uncles when he was seven years old.
Seymour went to Auckland Grammar School and then the University of Auckland, where he graduated in 2006 with a Bachelor of Engineering (Electrical & Electronic) and a Bachelor of Arts (Philosophy).
He then worked in engineering.
During the 2000s, Seymour worked for conservative think tanks in Canada as a policy analyst.
These think tanks include the Frontier Centre for Public Policy and the Manning Centre in Canada for five years.


Early political career


ACT activism and candidacy
Seymour is a long-time member of ACT, initially becoming involved in the political party through ACT on Campus while studying at Auckland University.
While there, he became leader of the student organisation.
Seymour contested three elections before his eventual success in 2014.
He first stood for ACT in 2005 in Mt Albert and was also ranked 37th on the party list.
He was unsuccessful in the electorate, which was held by Helen Clark, the prime minister at the time, and with 1.51% of the party vote ACT returned only two members to parliament, leaving Seymour out.
While living in Canada, Seymour contested the 2008 election for ACT as list-only candidate, ranked 55th.
At the 2011 general election, Seymour stood for ACT in the Auckland Central electorate, but the electorate was retained by National's Nikki Kaye.
Seymour was ranked fifth on the party list, but with 1.07% of the party vote, ACT was unable to return any list MPs to parliament, and John Banks, who had retained the Epsom seat for ACT, was the party's only sitting member.


Path to leadership, 2011–2014
After the 2011 election, Seymour worked as a ministerial adviser for Banks, who was appointed an Associate Minister of Education for the John Key-led National government.
Seymour assisted with the development of the government's Partnership Schools legislation.
In late 2013, John Banks resigned from his ministerial positions following criminal charges in relation to electoral returns in his bid for the Auckland mayoralty in 2010.
In June 2014 he announced he would resign from ACT Party leadership and not contest Epsom in the 2014 election.

In February 2014, at the same time that Jamie Whyte was made leader of the ACT Party, Seymour won the nomination to stand as the party's candidate for Epsom.
The electorate had already proven strategically important for ACT.
Seymour's selection for Epsom, over former deputy leader and party president John Boscawen, was described by political commentators as the "clean slate" choice and a "fresh face".
Seymour was the first confirmed candidate for the Epsom electorate, and at an Epsom public meeting during his campaign he was described as "the most popular with the crowd" and "the star of the night, intelligent, witty and articulate".
During the 2014 election campaign, Seymour released a campaign video online which the ACT Party described as going "viral" after it received around 35,000 views.
Seymour said of the video: "I think it was just totally real, we didn't set out to make it funny or make it a viral video, it was just me being me, that combination with rather retro production values ...
you wouldn't want to watch it standing up." Seymour was endorsed for the Epsom electorate by Prime Minister John Key, despite Key's National colleague Paul Goldsmith also contesting the electorate.


Fifth National Government


First term (2014–2017)
At the election, Seymour was elected for the Epsom electorate with a majority of 4,250 votes.
Jamie Whyte did not win in his bid for the Pakuranga electorate, and Seymour replaced Whyte as the leader of ACT on 3 October 2014.


Ministerial portfolios
National returned as a minority government with ACT in confidence and supply in 2014, and Seymour was appointed parliamentary under-secretary to the Minister of Education and Minister of Regulatory Reform on 29 September 2014, as a result of National's confidence and supply agreement with ACT.
Seymour was given responsibility for partnership schools, and reforms to the Resource Management Act 1991 and other regulation.
In October 2015, a Labour Party member's bill to make parliamentary under-secretaries subject to the Official Information Act passed its first reading in Parliament.
Seymour accused the bill of personally attacking him, and said it was not necessary because under-secretaries did not have decision-making powers.
Nonetheless, Seymour was one of 109 members of Parliament who voted in favour of the legislation at its third reading in June 2016.
Contracts in the second round of applications for charter (partnership) schools were completed on 11 September 2014.
In January 2016, the contract was terminated for a Northland charter school from the first round, Te Pūmanawa o te Wairua.
Seymour continued to support the policy and push for more charter schools to be established.


End of Life Choice Bill

On 6 June 2015, Seymour confirmed that he was preparing a member's bill known as the End of Life Choice Bill that would legalise assisted dying.
This bill was in response to the decision in Seales v Attorney-General that stated only parliament had the ability to address assisted suicide laws.
On 14 October 2015, Seymour lodged the End of Life Choice Bill into the member's ballot, launched a website promoting his bill, and released an ACT-commissioned poll of 2800 people showing 66% public support in favour of legalising assisted dying.
The bill passed its first reading 76–44 in December 2017 and its second reading 70–50 in June 2019.
In the committee of the whole House, support from the New Zealand First party became conditional on a referendum to decide whether the law should come into force.
An amendment to require a referendum passed 69–51, and the bill passed its third reading with the same numbers on 13 November.
The bill received royal assent on 16 November 2019, becoming the End of Life Choice Act 2019.
A referendum was held on 17 October 2020.
The vote was held in conjunction with the 2020 general election, and official results were released on 6 November 2020.
It was accepted by New Zealand voters, with 65.1% in support and 33.7% opposed.


Sale and Supply of Alcohol legislation
In August 2015, Seymour introduced a member's bill to allow bars and rugby clubs to extend their bar trading hours when they are televising games from the Rugby World Cup.
Most games, due to the time difference between New Zealand and England, started between 4 am and 6 am New Zealand Time, meaning that alcohol would not usually have been allowed to be sold.
Despite opposition from the Green Party and the Māori Party, Seymour's bill passed all three readings, meaning that bars and rugby clubs were allowed to open for Rugby World Cup games.


LGBTI cross-party group
In 2015, Seymour became a member of a cross-party group initiated by Jan Logie to look at and advocate for LGBTI rights.
The group also included: Catherine Delahunty (Green), Chris Bishop (National), Denis O'Rourke (NZ First), Denise Roche (Green), James Shaw (Green), Kevin Hague (Green), Louisa Wall (Labour), Nanaia Mahuta (Labour), Paul Foster-Bell (National), and Trevor Mallard (Labour).


Legalisation of Uber drivers and ride-sharing drivers
On 4 August 2017, Seymour and Transport Minister Simon Bridges helped to make Uber become part of New Zealand's transport system.
This also opened other ride-sharing apps like DiDi and Ola to enter and co-exist in the market.


In Opposition (2017–2023)


Second term (2017–2020)

Seymour was re-elected to Parliament for Epsom in the 2017 general election as the sole ACT Member of Parliament.


End of Life Choice Act

On 8 June 2017, Seymour's bill was selected from the members' ballot.
The bill was debated at its first reading on 13 December 2017, and passed with 76 votes in favour and 44 against.
It was then reviewed by the Justice Select Committee.
It reappeared before the House for a second reading 26 June 2019 and passed, with 70 votes in favour, 50 opposed.
An amendment to the bill, which included the requirement that it be approved by a binding referendum before it would take effect, passed prior to its third reading with 63 votes in favour and 57 opposed.
The bill reappeared before the House and passed its third reading on 13 November 2019 with 69 votes in favour and 51 votes against.
In an interview on the day of the third reading, Seymour said that he was confident that the public would vote to put the act into law, noting that "there was overwhelming support and it should easily pass the referendum." The act was approved in the 2020 New Zealand euthanasia referendum, which was held in conjunction with the 2020 general election, with a 65.91% of voters in favour of the act.


Gun control
Seymour was the sole Member of Parliament to oppose the Labour-led coalition government's Arms (Prohibited Firearms, Magazines, and Parts) Amendment Act 2019, which bans all semi-automatic firearms used during the Christchurch mosque shootings that occurred on 15 March 2019.
Although he missed an initial procedural vote on the bill, he still cast a No vote when voting on the actual bill took place with a final result of 119 to 1.
Seymour criticised the speed of the government's gun control legislation.


Zero Carbon Act 2019
Despite announcing that the ACT party would vote against the Climate Change Response (Zero Carbon) Amendment Act, Seymour was absent from the vote on the bill's third reading.
This allowed it to pass into law with unanimous support, 119–0, drawing the attention of local media.


Abortion Legislation Act 2020
Seymour supported the Abortion Legislation Act 2020 but argued that "safe zones", which would have established 150-metre protest-free areas around abortion clinics, would infringe upon freedom of expression.
Prior to the third reading of the bill on 10 March 2020, Seymour successfully included an amendment eliminating safe zones around abortion clinics.
The bill passed its third reading on 18 March, receiving royal assent on 23 March.
Safe zones were eventually reinstated through the Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion (Safe Areas) Amendment Act 2022, which Seymour supported.


COVID-19 pandemic (2020)
During the COVID-19 pandemic in New Zealand, Seymour served as a member of the Epidemic Response Committee from 25 March 2020.


Third term (2020–2023)

During the 2020 New Zealand general election, Seymour contested the Epsom electorate and was re-elected by a margin of 9,224 votes.
In addition, ACT won eight percent of the popular vote, winning ten seats in Parliament (with nine on the party list).
In the much expanded caucus, Seymour held the specific portfolios of Finance and COVID-19 Response spokespersons, while remaining leader of the ACT party.
Seymour's third member's bill to be debated in Parliament, the Regulatory Standards Bill, was drawn from the ballot in June 2021.
It proposed stricter rules around government regulation making but failed its first reading in July 2021 without the support of the Labour government.
Following that bill's introduction, but before its defeat, Seymour announced his next member's bill would establish a legislative framework for four-year terms of Parliament.


COVID-19 pandemic
Following the Delta variant outbreak that began in August 2021, Seymour released ACT's COVID 3.0 strategy, which advocated replacing the government's elimination strategy with a "harm minimisation" strategy that focused on isolating infected individuals and easing border restrictions for travellers from low risk countries.
In November 2021, Seymour advocated a regular testing regime for unvaccinated workers instead of the government's vaccine mandate for education, health and hospitality workers.
In December 2021, Seymour opposed the proposed joint Police and Māori iwi (tribal) checkpoints that screened travellers from Auckland heading into the Northland region from 15 December, arguing they would restrict people's freedom of movement.
These checkpoints were located at  State Highway 1 in Uretiti and State Highway 12 near Maungaturoto through the initiative of former Mana Movement leader Hone Harawira's Tai Tokerau Border Control.
Seymour's criticisms were echoed by National Party leader Christopher Luxon and New Zealand First politicians Winston Peters and Shane Jones.
In response, Labour's deputy leader and Te Tai Tokerau Member of Parliament Kelvin Davis alleged that criticism of the iwi-led checkpoints was motivated by anti-Māori racism.


2022 "arrogant prick" incident
In mid December 2022, Seymour questioned Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern during the Parliamentary Question time.
As she sat down after answering, Ardern was recorded calling Seymour an "arrogant prick" on a hot mic, which meant the remark was recorded in Hansard.
Ardern later issued a personal apology to Seymour because, she said, her remarks were now on record.
Since New Zealand parliamentary debates are televised, the comment was also aired on television.
The two politicians subsequently reconciled and joined forces to raise NZ$60,000 for the Prostate Cancer Foundation by auctioning a signed and framed copy of the Prime Minister's remark.


Sixth National Government


Fourth term (2023–present)

In the 2023 New Zealand general election held on 14 October, Seymour was re-elected in Epsom by a margin of 8,142 votes.
ACT won 8.64 percent of the popular vote and gained 11 seats in Parliament.
Following the election, ACT entered into coalition talks with the National and New Zealand First parties to form a new government.
On 24 November, the three parties concluded coalition talks and reached an agreement on policy issues and ministerial portfolios.
Seymour expressed confidence that ACT had secured a favourable coalition deal.
He told The New Zealand Herald that the Government would announce a 100-day plan that could include repealing some legislation passed by the outgoing Labour government.
As part of the coalition negotiations, Seymour will share the position of deputy prime minister with Peters for the term of the 54th New Zealand Parliament.
Peters served as deputy prime minister until 31 May 2025, and then Seymour assumed the office until the conclusion of the term.
He is the first minister for regulation, a portfolio he proposed.
He was also appointed as an associate minister of education (partnership schools), finance, and health (Pharmac).


Associate education minister
In early March 2024 Seymour, in his capacity as Associate Minister of Education, confirmed that the $350 million Government-funded school lunch programme "Ka Ora, Ka Ako" would be reviewed prior to the 2024 New Zealand budget.
He claimed there was no evidence that the school lunch programme had improved school achievement and attendance.
Seymour cited a 2023 Treasury report which found that 12 percent of lunches (roughly 10,000 a day) were wasted.
He has also suggested imposing fines on parents for truancy.
The contract was due to expire at the end of 2024.
The school lunch programme serves 220,000 students across New Zealand.
In response, Porirua College deputy principal John Topp and attendance officer Mose Skipworth defended the school lunches programme and said that scrapping it would lead to an increase in truancy.
In response, the Health Coalition Aotearoa sought a meeting with Seymour to argue for the school lunch programme, arguing that scaling back or shutting down the programme would worsen hardship and poor educational outcomes among deprived children.
On 14 March 2024, Seymour visited Freyberg High School in Palmerston North and met with staff members, including principal Graeme Williams, to discuss truancy.
Towards the end of the visit, several students staged the haka (posture dance) "Ka Mate" to protest against the Government's proposal to slash the free school lunch programme Ka Ora, Ka Ako and perceived anti-Māori policies.
One student waving the national Māori flag also spat near Seymour.
Williams condemned the students' behaviour as "totally unacceptable" and said that those responsible would be subject to disciplinary procedures.
Seymour said that one or two students failed to respect tikanga Māori/Māori cultural values including hospitality and that the students were being affected by "torrents of information that isn't quite true."  Seymour also expressed interest in meeting Freyberg High School students on his next visit.
Following a 7,000-strong petition supporting the students, Williams announced that the school would not discipline the students involved in the protest but would instead work with the local iwi (tribe) Ngāti Ruanui Tumu Whakaae, the Ministry of Education, and board of trustees to implement a restorative process to address the incident.
In early April 2024, Seymour created an eight-member "Charter School/Kura Hourua Establishment Board" to facilitate the reintroduction of charter schools.
The Board is headed by St Cuthbert's College principal Justine Mahon, with other notable members including Glen Denham and Professor Elizabeth Rata.
The Board aims to reestablish charter schools by 2025.
On 16 April, Seymour announced several changes to the early childhood education sector including easing teaching qualification requirements, allowing the government to decide the location of early childhood centres, and introducing mandatory reporting of child abuse.
On 1 May 2024, Seymour confirmed that the Government would continue to fund the previous Labour Government's free school lunches programme for a few years until the completion of a review into the programme.
 On 8 May, Seymour announced the Government's modified school lunch programme, which would cost $234.8 million for the 2025 school year.
Under the revised scheme, 10,000 pre-schoolers in low-equity, non-profit early childhood centres would be eligible for free morning tea and lunch five days a week at a cost of $4 million.
While the school lunch programme would remain unchanged for primary school students in 2025, the school lunch programme for intermediate and high school students would be bulk-purchased by the Government and delivered to schools.
On 14 May, Seymour announced that the Government would allocate $153 million from the 2024 budget to convert 35 state schools into charter schools and establish 15 new charter schools between 2025 and 2026.
Labour's education spokesperson Jan Tinetti, Green education spokesperson Lawrence Xu-Nan, the New Zealand Educational Institute (NZEI) and the Post Primary Teachers' Association (PPTA) objected to the Government's charter school plans on the grounds that they were "profit-driven", would divert funding from overwhelmed state schools, disadvantaged children with behavioural issues and disabilities and  did not have to hire qualified teachers.
By contrast, Innovative Education Consultants head consultant Alwyn Poole and St Stephen's School co-principal Nathan Durie welcomed the reintroduction of charter schools, arguing that they would meet the needs of children and bring flexibility to the educational system.
In late September 2024, Seymour confirmed that the Government would prosecute parents for persistent truancy and remove teacher-only days during school term time.
This policy was subsequently reversed by Education Minister Erica Stanford, who confirmed four "teacher only days" in 2025 for state schools to implement the Government's new curriculum.
In mid-October 2024, Seymour released details of the Government's revised free school lunch programme, which would be launched in Term 1 2024.
Seymour said that the revamped programme would save $130 million a year, with meals costing an average of NZ$3.
Meals would consist of chicken katsu, butter chicken, lasagne, chicken pasta salad and wraps.
Meals for students in Years 0 to 9 would be an average of 240 grams while meals for older students would be at least 300g with additional items including fruit, yoghurt or muesli bars.
Schools would receive funding and resources to either prepare their meals internally, iwi/hapū providers and external suppliers including Gilmours, Foodstuffs, Watties and Hellers.
On 19 December 2024, Seymour and Tertiary Education Minister Penny Simmonds announced that the Government would amend the Education and Training Act 2020 to strengthen universities' free speech obligations.
In late April 2025, Seymour issued a letter to the 78 mayors of the local district councils, urging them to combat truancy and to boost school attendance in their local communities.
Several mayors including Mayor of Christchurch Phil Mauger regarded Seymour's letter as hypocritical due to the government's earlier messaging that local governments should focus on core services like roads and water.


Associate finance minister
On 10 March 2024, Seymour announced that the Government would restore interest deductions on residential investment properties.


Associate health minister (Pharmac)
In mid-July 2024, Associate Health Minister Seymour had instructed the pharmaceutical purchasing agency Pharmac to stop factorising the Treaty of Waitangi in its decisions, writing that "Pharmac's role should focus on delivering improved health outcomes underpinned by robust data and evidence, in accordance with its statutory responsibilities.
This should serve all New Zealanders based on actual need, without assigning their background as a proxy of need." While Seymour's directive was supported Pharmac board chair Paula Bennett and Patient Voice Aotearoa chair Malcolm Mulholland, it was criticised by former Māori Health Authority clinical lead Dr Rawiri McKree Jansen, who said that the Government could do more to improve Māori access to health services and medicines.


Acting prime minister
Seymour served as acting prime minister from 14 to 20 July 2024 during Prime Minister Luxon's personal leave following his trip to the US.
Deputy Prime Minister Winston Peters was unavailable for the role as he was visiting Japan and South Korea at the time.
As acting prime minister, Seymour toured the Government's Military-Style Academy Pilot for youth offenders with Children's Minister Karen Chhour and the media on 20 July.


Regulation
As Minister for Regulation, Seymour is the sponsor of the proposed Regulatory Standards Bill, saying that its purpose was to "increase transparency in lawmaking." He said that the proposed bill would prioritise individual and property rights, enabling business growth and opportunities.
The Regulatory Standards Bill has been criticised by University of Auckland law Professor Jane Kelsey, who said it would circumscribe scrutiny and prioritised property rights over other considerations including the Treaty of Waitangi, the environment and workplace safety.
Similarly, researcher Melanie Nelson claimed the bill lacked a "democratic mandate for constitutional changes of this magnitude." By contrast, New Zealand Initiative senior research fellow Bryce Wilkinson argued that good quality legislation was needed to protect personal autonomy and property.
On 13 November, Seymour's Regulatory Standards Bill passed its third reading along party lines; with the National, Act and NZ First parties voting in favour and the Labour, Green and Māori parties opposing the bill.
During the final debate, Seymour argued that the bill would help identify the costs of new legislation and collective projects on the public.


Political views and controversies
Seymour has embraced libertarian social policies since becoming party leader, such as supporting the legalisation of euthanasia, and introducing the End of Life Choice Act 2019.
He has emerged as a vocal opponent of co-governance with Māori, and supports raising the retirement age and enacting tax cuts.
Seymour has increasingly caused controversy for his outspoken views, which include comparing co-governance with apartheid, opposing Māori vaccination prioritisation, and a joke about sending Guy Fawkes to blow up the Ministry of Pacific Peoples.


Co-governance
Since 2021, Seymour has been a vocal opponent of co-governance initiatives, a term referring to Māori people and the Crown sharing decision-making.
In Parliament, he has opposed Three Waters, He Puapua, the Māori Health Authority and the Rotorua District Council (Representation Arrangements) Bill.
He said: "The net result [of co-governance] is that someone who's not accountable to the wider community gets the right to say 'no' because of their birth.
It's a recipe for frustration at best and resentment and division at worst." After Seymour proposed to abolish the Ministry of Māori Development, Labour MP Willie Jackson labelled Seymour a "useless Maori" and "that [he] would 'do anything' for votes."
During the 2023 electoral campaign, Seymour advocated for a referendum on co-governance.
There was strong opposition to the proposal by those who saw it as divisive.
Seymour was quoted as saying, "I think there is a real need for us to have a genuine, high-quality conversation around co-governance." 
On 19 January 2024, a draft of the ACT party's Treaty Principles Bill was leaked.
It was met with criticism from many Māori political figures, including Māori Party co-leaders Debbie-Ngarewa Packer and Rawiri Waititi, as well as from academics, such as Michael Belgrave, a historian and Massey University professor, "Anyone who knows anything about this topic wouldn't come up with this policy...
[Act] don't have any understanding of the 50 years of Treaty principles debate".
Leaked advice from the Ministry of Justice suggested that the bill was "highly contentious" due to "the fundamental constitutional nature of the subject matter and the lack of consultation with the public on the policy development prior to Select Committee".
Paul Goldsmith, the Minister of Justice, subsequently appeared on television to re-confirm prime minister Christopher Luxon's position on the proposed bill, saying that "the coalition agreement is clear that the government will support a bill on Treaty principles to first reading.
However, Christopher Luxon has been clear that National has no intention to support it beyond that." Ultimately, the bill was voted down on its second reading on 10 April 2025.
As reported in February 2024, a poll on various matters before the government showed 36% of respondents in support of a referendum "on the Treaty of Waitangi" with 35% opposed, and the rest undecided.


Criticism of hate speech laws
In mid-May 2019, Seymour generated widespread criticism, including from MPs from all of the other parties, when he stated in a radio interview that Green Party list MP Golriz Ghahraman was a "menace to freedom in [New Zealand]." Critics suggested Seymour's association of Ghahraman's support for hate speech laws with suppression of free speech by dictators like Mao Zedong and Adolf Hitler was inappropriate.
Seymour argued that he had merely "attacked her views".
Seymour's concern is that the strengthening of hate speech laws is "divisive and dangerous" since the power of the state could be used by the majority to "silence unpopular views".
He believes, if the law is strengthened, that what is considered hate speech will become "too subjective" and open to being abused.


Public release of Māori vaccination code
In September 2021, Seymour caused a controversy after releasing a special COVID-19 vaccination appointment access code meant exclusively for Māori people in Auckland to his followers on Twitter.
The code was intended for the population that is the least vaccinated and most at-risk for COVID-19 demographic in New Zealand.
The code offered priority access for Māori who wished to be vaccinated by Whānau Waipareira (a Māori social services agency) at the Trusts Arena in West Auckland.
While the move was supported by right-wing groups, it was criticised by Whānau Waipareira CEO John Tamihere and Seymour was faced with allegations of racism towards Māori despite his own Māori heritage.
Seymour defended his actions, stating that "access to vaccination has been the same for people of all ethnic backgrounds." He alleged that the code was a move by the government that suggested "Māori people have trouble making a booking".
He told media that "the virus doesn't discriminate on race, so neither should the roll out."


Ministry for Pacific Peoples remarks
On 17 August 2023, Seymour joked about bombing the Ministry for Pacific Peoples during an interview with Newstalk ZB following revelations about wasteful spending by the Ministry earlier in August.
During the interview, Seymour claimed "in his fantasy' he would "send a guy like Guy Fawkes" into the Ministry's headquarters and "it'd all be over", apparently implying he would have it blown up.
This was a reference to the Gunpowder Plot, planned in 1605 by English Catholic plotters but foiled at the last minute.
ACT has campaigned for the abolition of the Ministry, alongside the Human Rights Commission and Ministry for Women.
Seymour's remarks were criticised by Deputy Prime Minister Carmel Sepuloni and former National Party minister Alfred Ngaro as inflammatory and insensitive towards Pasifika New Zealanders.
Te Pāti Māori leader Debbie Ngarewa-Packer accused him of hate speech.
Prime Minister Chris Hipkins condemned Seymour's comments, 'should be ashamed of himself'.
Seymour refused to apologise for his remarks, claiming he was joking.
Someone subsequently filed a Police report against Seymour for his remarks, but no offence was identified.


Links to the Atlas Network
In a 2023 interview with Mihingarangi Forbes, Seymour was questioned about his links to the Atlas Network, an American think tank and policy institute known for its climate change denial.
Seymour firmly denounced Forbes' line of questioning and described his supposed connection to the group as a "crazy conspiracy theory".
However, Seymour does in fact have links to the Atlas Network; during his work for the Canadian conservative think tanks  Frontier Centre for Public Policy and the Manning Centre, he was a graduate of the Atlas Networks' 2008 "MBA for Think Tanks" program.
Seymour also featured in their Autumn 2008 year-in-review magazine.
A clip of Seymour during his time working for the Frontier Centre for Public Policy, in which he spoke with a deliberately acquired Canadian accent, subsequently went viral.
In his 2021 Waitangi Day speech, available on the ACT Party website, Seymour also referred to "my old friends at the Atlas Network".
Seymour accepts the scientific consensus on climate change, and has denied the ACT Party is contributing to climate change denial after a 2008 ACT party policy under Rodney Hide stated there is "no warming trend since 1970".
Seymour said he disagreed with that statement saying "I believe New Zealand is warming".


School lunches

Seymour shrank the budget for free school lunches, a programme introduced by the previous Sixth Labour Government that he has long opposed.
On 8 May 2024, Seymour had launched a modified NZ$234.8 million school lunch programme for the 2025 school year.
While the school lunch programme would remained unchanged for primary school students, the school lunch programme for intermediate and high school students would be bulk-purchased by the Government and delivered to schools.
During the press announcement, Seymour stated that the bulk-purchased food would consist of sandwiches and fruit rather than quinoa, couscous, and hummus.
When asked about food items such as sushi, Seymour said "If you don't get that sushi's woke, then I don't know how to wake you up, but the key message here is that we are introducing the kinds of foods that are put in the lunchboxes of children, the other 75 percent of kids, who rely on their parents to send their lunch." Labour's education spokesperson Jan Tinetti welcomed the retention of the school lunch programme but expressed concerns about changes to the secondary school lunch programme.
Health Coalition Aotearoa co-chair Professor Boyd Swinburn questioned the nutritional value of bulk-purchased foods while Dish Magazine editor Sarah Tuck defended the nutritional value of quinoa and sushi.
At the start of the 2025 school year between late January and early February 2025, several schools reported problems with the revised school lunch programme including late or missed deliveries, uncooked food, insufficient nutrition, food wastage, ham in halal meals and a shortage of vegetarian meals.
Consequently, several schools were forced to use their own funds to buy meals for pupils.
In response to rollout issues and criticism, Seymour apologised for "teething issues" in the rollout of school lunches, which he attributed to operational issues behind delivering large amounts of meals.
Seymour accepted the school lunch scheme needed improvements but defended cost-cutting measures as necessary to saving taxpayer money.
By contrast, Labour's education spokesperson Tinetti criticised the National-led government for allegedly prioritising tax cuts over proper nutrition for children.
On 27 February 2025, Seymour rejected calls to sack school lunch provider School Lunch Collective and argued that the current school lunch programme was better than Labour's iteration.
On 1 March, Prime Minister Luxon said that the school lunch programme was experiencing "teething issues" and said that Seymour "will work his way through those issues...
and I expect he will [find a solution]." On 4 March, the Ministry for Primary Industries launched an investigation into School Lunch Collective meals after children were served meals with melted plastic packaging.
On 11 March, the Libelle Group went into liquidation.
The company had been contracted by the Compass Group to provide 125,000 meals to the Government's school meal programme.
By 12 March, Radio New Zealand reported that the School Lunch Collective had turned to Australian providers to address the shortfall caused by Libelle's liquidation.


Philip Polkinghorne letter
On 9 February 2025, Seymour acknowledged that he had written a letter to Auckland District Commander Karyn Malthus in April 2022 complaining about former eye surgeon Philip Polkinghorne's treatment by Police during the course of their investigation into the death of his wife Pauline Hanna.
Seymour said that he had written to Police in his capacity as Polkinghorne's electorate member of Parliament.
Seymour had written the letter prior to Police charging Polkinghorne with murder in August 2022.
On 10 February 2025, Prime Minister Luxon criticised Seymour's letter as "ill-advised" since Polkinghorne was the subject of an active Police investigation at the time.
In response, Seymour countered that he was advocating for a constituent and believed that Police had gone "beyond the brief" of their investigation at the time.
Later that night, Seymour met with Luxon to resolve their differences regarding the Polkinghorne letter.
Seymour's actions were also criticised by Labour Party leader Chris Hipkins, who called for his resignation as a cabinet minister, and Chief Victims' Advisor Ruth Money, who said that Seymour should have raised Polkinghorne's concerns with the Independent Police Conduct Authority (IPCA).


2025 Land Rover fundraiser
On 10 February 2025, Seymour attracted media attention after driving a 1948 Land Rover up the steps of the New Zealand House of Representatives in order to raise funds for the University of Auckland's Centre for Heart Research's heart valve development programme.
The Land Rover had been purchased from Dunedin by the centre's director Professor Julian Paton, who was relocating it to Auckland.
A security officer stopped Seymour from completing the full climb and informed him that he did not have permission from the Speaker of the House.
During the incident, Seymour said "you shouldn't have to get permission do to every little thing in New Zealand"  and said that Members of Parliament should not need to seek permission since Parliament was their workplace.
On 11 February, Speaker Gerry Brownlee rebuked Seymour for suggesting that MPs could do as they please at Parliament.
Seymour subsequently apologised for his actions in a letter.


2025 Cabinet restructuring proposal
During a speech to the Tauranga Business Chamber on 1 May 2025, Seymour proposed reducing the number of New Zealand Cabinet ministers, describing the current ministerial lineup as "looking bloated and full of meaningless titles." He said: We currently have 82 ministerial portfolios...
held by 28 ministers.
And under them, we have 41 separate government departments.
Something has to change...
sure, that might put me and a few of my colleagues out of a job.
But if that's the price...
then it's worth it.
Seymour has proposed reducing the ministerial lineup to 20 cabinet ministers, with no associate positions except for the Minister of Finance.


Regulatory Standards Bill
In late June 2025, Seymour published several social media posts targeting several critics of his Regulatory Standards Bill, whom he claimed were suffering from a "derangement syndrome." These critics included Mayor of Wellington Tory Whanau, Labour MP Willie Jackson, academics Dame Anne Salmond, George Laking, and Metiria Turei.
In response, Whanau and Salmond accused Seymour of breaching the Cabinet Manual and announced they would lodge complains with the Prime Minister and  the New Zealand Cabinet Office.
Similar criticism was echoed by Labour leader Chris Hipkins, who said that Seymour's conduct was "unbecoming" of a Minister of the Crown.
In response to criticism, Seymour said he was responding to "incorrect statements" and "being playful with them."
In June 2025, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples Albert Kwokwo Barume wrote a letter to the New Zealand Government  raising concerns about several policies affecting indigenous people including the Regulatory Standards Bill.
Barume said that the legislation risked undermining the Government's Treaty of Waitangi obligations and sidelining Māori.
In mid July 2025, Seymour wrote a letter dismissing the United Nations' concerns as "insane." In response, Prime Minister Luxon and Foreign Minister Peters criticised Seymour for writing a reply without consulting with his Cabinet colleagues.
Following a meeting with Luxon, Seymour agreed to rescind his letter and allow Peters to issue an official response to Barume's letter.


Personal life
Seymour appeared on the seventh series of Dancing with the Stars.
He competed to raise funds for Kidsline, a youth telephone counselling service.
His professional dancing partner was Amelia McGregor.
Despite harsh criticism from the judges, he finished 5th.
In an interview in 2021, Seymour said he would love to start a family and would "give up politics in a heartbeat".
In November 2024, he announced he had been dating Alexandra Martelli, an Auckland property buyer for the last two years, adding that he was "effectively married to Parliament" which gets in the way of starting a family.
They got engaged in 2025.


Honours
In late August 2025, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky awarded Seymour the Order of Merit, Third Class for supporting Ukrainian territorial integrity and sovereignty, charitable activity and promoting Ukraine in the world.
Seymour was one of 143 recipients of the Order of Merit in 2025, which included political figures from Portugal, Finland, Croatia and the Netherlands.


Electoral history


2005 election


2011 election


2014 election


2017 election


2020 election


2023 election


Notes


References


External links

Profile at New Zealand Parliament
Releases and speeches at Beehive.govt.nz
seymour4epsom.co.nz Archived 17 August 2014 at the Wayback Machine, official campaign website
www.lifechoice.org.nz Archived 19 October 2015 at the Wayback Machine, official website promoting his assisted dying bill

Khökh Serkh
Khökh Serkh (Mongolian: Хөх сэрх, blue buck) with a latitude of 48.05 (48° 3' 2 N) and a longitude of 90.87 (90° 51' 59 E), is a mountain located in west Mongolia.
The highest peak is the Takhilt.


See also
List of mountains in Mongolia


References

Steeple compound engine
A steeple compound engine is a form of tandem compound steam engine that is constructed as an inverted vertical engine.
Because of their great height, they became known as "steeple" engines.


Compound engines
Compound engines have either two or three cylinders, in which the steam is expanded in turn.
The exhaust of the high-pressure or HP cylinder feeds the low-pressure or LP cylinder.
Three cylinder engines also had an intermediate-pressure or IP cylinder, but these were less common than two cylinder engines.
In the tandem compound the cylinders are arranged end to end on a common axis (in this case, vertical) with both pistons mounted on the same rod and moving together.
Each cylinder has independent valves and valve gear.
The pipe connecting them may be enlarged to form a 'receiver', a reservoir for steam at the intermediate pressure.
This improves the efficiency of compound engines.
Other than their great height, the tandem compound steeple engine had no connection to Napier's earlier steeple engine, as used for paddle steamers on the Clyde.
The vertical tandem compound has been used for marine use in small steamboats, although not under the 'steeple' name.
Horizontal space in such boats is often more restricted than vertical space.


Vertical compound engines
The Fitchburg engine (illus.) was one of a series of similar engines offered in various configurations.
The steeple arrangement required a high ceiling to the engine house, but had two advantages: it took up less floor space than a horizontal engine and it also required less complex masonry foundations beneath the engine.
A vertical engine could be erected on any reasonably level base that was strong enough to bear its weight.
A horizontal engine required carefully aligned brickwork to support both the crankshaft and cylinder(s) separately.
Such brickwork was costly, took time to build and also prevented new engines being installed in old engine houses without expensive rebuilding.
Fitchburg were notable in also supplying an automatic governor (illus., left-hand flywheel) that controlled the valve's cut-off according to load.
Such governors would become significant around 1900 with the development of the high-speed engine, where they were used to control speed precisely.
In these earlier medium-speed engines, the function of these governors was not just to control the engine's speed, but also to improve efficiency.
The Fitchburg piston valves could be operated with a cut-off from zero to two-thirds of the stroke.
A shorter cut-off improves efficiency when operating under light loads.
Earlier engines had used devices such as expansion valves to achieve this, but they also required the continued attention of a skilled driver, who could 'drive' the engine by varying the cut-off as load changed.
The earlier Watt governors only controlled a throttle valve, so although they controlled an engine's speed, they did not encourage efficiency.
An engine operating with no cut-off but a throttled steam supply will be operating inefficiently, owing to reduced expansive working and the risk of wire-drawing.
The first 'automatic' governors were termed that because they not only controlled the speed, but could also take over the role of the driver and could vary cut-off too.


Other notable makers

One of the best-known examples of the steeple engine was the Willans engine.
These were double- or triple-expansion compound engines, with the unusual features of single-acting cylinders and a central spindle valve shared between all cylinders.
By around 1900, more of the Willans type were in service for electrical generation than any other type.
One of the last steeple compound engine designs was the Skinner Unaflow of 1929.
Although some were used as stationary engines and generator sets, most were marine engines.
The Great Lakes ferry SS Badger continues in service with her original engines.


Notes


References

Waikākaho River
The Waikākaho River is a river of the Marlborough Region of New Zealand's South Island.
It flows south from its sources southeast of Havelock to reach the Wairau River 5 kilometres (3 mi) west of Tuamarina.
The New Zealand Ministry for Culture and Heritage gives a translation of "waters of the flowering plumes of the toetoe" for Waikākaho.


See also
List of rivers of New Zealand


References

Carl-Göran Ekerwald
Carl-Göran Ekerwald (30 December 1923 – 8 April 2025) was a Swedish novelist, literary critic, translator, forest worker and teacher.



Life and career
Ekerwald was born in Östersund.
After studies at Uppsala University, he worked as a teacher and a principal.
He made his literary debut with Elden och fågelungen, a collection of short stories, in 1959; several of his literary works have been said to deal with the relation between eccentrics, or outsiders, and society.
From the 1990s, he wrote several intellectual biographies on Horace, Voltaire, Shakespeare, Céline and Nietzsche.
Ekerwald was also known to have introduced and popularized Persian culture and literature in Sweden; he edited the volumes Persiska antologin (1976) and Persisk balsam (2007), two anthologies of translations of Sufi poets and mystics such as Attar of Nishapur, Omar Khayyam, and Rumi, made by Eric Hermelin.
Ekerwald also translated works by Ulrike Meinhof and Antonio Gramsci into Swedish.
In later years, he also wrote memoirs, including Skogvaktarens pojke (2002), which deals with his upbringing in Jämtland.
Ekerwald was awarded a honorary doctorate at Umeå University in 1986, and the Dobloug Prize in 1987.
He was married twice; first to Anna Ekerwald from 1945 until her death in 2009, and second to Sigrid Kahle from 2010 until her death in 2013.

Ekerwald turned 100 on 30 December 2023, upon which he reflected in his last published book, Fördelen med att bli gammal, from the same year.
He died on 8 April 2025, at th age of 101.


References

Aradhna Krishna
Aradhna Krishna is an Indian-American academic focused on marketing.
Harvard Business Review recently acknowledged her as "the foremost expert in the field" of sensory marketing.

She is the Dwight F.
Benton Professor of Marketing at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan.
She was awarded as a fellow of the Society for Consumer Psychology, the organization's highest honor, in recognition of her contributions to consumer psychology.


Contributions to marketing
Krishna organized the first academic conference on sensory marketing' (in 2008), bringing together psychologists, neuroscientists, marketing academics and practitioners.
She defines sensory marketing as "marketing that engages the consumers' senses and affects their perception, judgment and behavior (and suggests that) from a managerial perspective, sensory marketing can be used to create subconscious triggers that characterize consumer perceptions of abstract notions of the product (e.g., its sophistication or quality)".
In more than fifty published articles, Krishna has explored ways in which a product's look, feel, taste, sound, and smell contribute to how it is perceived, and how people respond to it.
Illustrating her research, she also edited and contributed to the book, Sensory Marketing: Research on the Sensuality of Products, in 2009.
She also runs an international sensory marketing research laboratory.
In 2013, she published a book, Customer Sense: How the 5 Senses Influence Buying Behavior.
Some important concepts introduced by Krishna's work are perceived consumption, guiltless gluttony, and Smellizing.
Raghubir and Krishna (1999) show that container shapes can impact perceived consumption, which is how much consumers think they have eaten or drunk as opposed to how much they have actually eaten or drunk.
Aydinoglu and Krishna (2011) show that food size labels (e.g., a large size portion of french fries being labeled medium) can result in believing that one has not eaten too much and thus not feeling guilty about it (guiltless gluttony).
Smellizing is a term coined by Krishna (Krishna, Morrin and Sayin 2014) to reflect "imagining smells".
 Krishna, Morrin and Sayin (2014) show that smellizing foods can result in similar physiological responses (salivation) as real smells, when a picture of the food is also available.
Besides sensory marketing, she works on designing winning cause marketing and corporate social responsibility programs, and on constructing engaging pricing and promotion policies.
The implications of Krishna's research and expertise have been recognized not only within academia, but within business in general, being frequently quoted in outlets such as Time magazine, The New York Times, and The Daily Telegraph.


Other endeavors
Krishna is a lead area editor for the Journal of Consumer Psychology, an area editor for Management Science and serves on the editorial boards of Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Consumer Research, and Marketing Science.


Recognition
Fellow of the Society for Consumer Psychology
Ross School of Business Senior Faculty Research Award 2007
Best paper award at Winter American Marketing Association conference 2006
Outstanding reviewer award - Journal of Consumer Research (2002-2003).
William R.
Davidson Award for best paper to appear in the Journal of Retailing in 2002
American Marketing Association Doctoral Dissertation competition winner, 1990.


Selected articles
Aydinoğlu, Nilüfer Z.
& Krishna, Aradhna (April 1, 2011).
"Guiltless Gluttony: The Asymmetric Effect of Size Labels on Size Perceptions and Consumption" (PDF).
Journal of Consumer Research.
37 (6): 1095–1112.
doi:10.1086/657557.
Krishna, Aradhna, Ryan S.
Elder & Cindy Caldara (October 2010), "Feminine to smell but masculine to touch?
Multisensory congruence and its effect on the aesthetic experience", Journal of Consumer Psychology, 20 (4): 410-418.
Krishna, Aradhna, May Lwin & Maureen Morrin (June 2010), "Product Scent and Memory", Journal of Consumer Research.
37: 57-67.
Lwin, May, Maureen Morrin, & Aradhna Krishna (2010), "Exploring the Superadditive Effects of Scent and Pictures on Verbal Recall: An Extension of Dual Coding Theory", Journal of Consumer Psychology, 20 (3): 317-326.
Krishna, Aradhna & Maureen Morrin (April 2008), "Does Touch Affect Taste?
The Perceptual Transfer of Product Container Haptic Cues", Journal of Consumer Research, 34: 807-818.
Krishna, Aradhna (April 2005), "How Big is Tall?", Forethought, Harvard Business Review, 83 (4): 18-19.


References


External links
Official website
Aradhna Krishna's Sensory Marketing Lab

Hugo Bravo (footballer, born 1972)
Hugo Agustín Bravo Toro (born 5 February 1972) is a Chilean former footballer who played as an attacking midfielder.


Club career
Born in Santiago, Chile, Bravo is a product of the Palestino youth system and played for them until 1994.
He mainly developed his career at the Chilean top division, playing for Universidad de Chile, Deportes Temuco, Deportes Iquique, Coquimbo Unido, Audax Italiano, Unión San Felipe, Deportes Puerto Montt and Cobresal.
As a member of Universidad de Chile, he won the 1995 Chilean Primera División, scoring one goal in the season.
In the Chilean second division, he played for Everton and Deportes Copiapó.
He also had a brief stint in Mexico with Puebla.
He retired at the end of the 2004 season.


International career
Bravo represented Chile U20 in the 1991 South American Championship in Venezuela.


Personal life
From his maternal line, Bravo is the half-brother of the former professional footballers Jorge Valdivia, a Chile international, and Claudio Valdivia as well as the grandson of Juan Toro, another Chile international, who reared him.
His half-brother Luis Valdivia, or Quique as he is known, also was with the Palestino youth ranks.


Post-retirement
Bravo went on playing football at amateur level for clubs such as Caupolicán from Huelquén, also winning titles with them.
He had a metal buying and selling business.


References


External links
Hugo Bravo at BDFA (in Spanish)
Hugo Bravo at BeSoccer
Hugo Bravo at PlaymakerStats

Sama-Bajau
The Sama-Bajau include several Austronesian ethnic groups of Maritime Southeast Asia.
The name collectively refers to related people who usually call themselves the Sama or Samah (formally A'a Sama, "Sama people"); or are known by the exonym Bajau (, also spelled Badjao, Bajaw, Badjau, Badjaw, Bajo or Bayao).
They usually live a seaborne lifestyle and use small wooden sailing vessels such as the perahu (layag in Maranao), djenging (balutu), lepa, and vinta (pilang).
They also use medium-sized vessels like the jungkung, timbawan and small fishing vessels like biduk and bogo-katik.
Some Sama-Bajau groups native to Sabah are also known for their traditional horse culture.
The Sama-Bajau are the dominant ethnic group of the islands of Tawi-Tawi.
They are also found in other islands of the Sulu Archipelago, coastal areas of Mindanao and other islands in the southern Philippines; as well as northern and eastern Borneo, Sulawesi, and throughout the eastern Indonesian islands.
In the Philippines, they are grouped with the religiously similar Moro people.
Within the last fifty years, many of the Filipino Sama-Bajau have migrated to neighbouring Sabah and the northern islands of the Philippines, due to the conflict in Mindanao.
As of 2010, they were the second-largest ethnic group in Sabah.
Sama-Bajau have sometimes been called the "Sea Gypsies" or "Sea Nomads", terms that have also been used for non-related ethnic groups with similar traditional lifestyles, such as the Moken of the Burmese-Thai Mergui Archipelago, the Orang Laut of southeastern Sumatra and the Riau Islands of Indonesia along with Singapore, and the Tanka people of Southern China.
The modern outward spread of the Sama-Bajau from older inhabited areas seems to have been associated with the development of sea trade in sea cucumber (trepang).


Ethnonym

Sama-Bajau is a collective term, referring to several closely related indigenous people who consider themselves a single distinct bangsa ("ethnic group" or "nation").
It is generally accepted that these groups of people can be termed Sama or Bajau,  though they never call themselves Bajau in the Philippines.
Instead, they call themselves with the names of their tribes, usually the place they live or their place of origin.
For example, the sea-going Sama-Bajau prefer to call themselves the Sama Dilaut or Sama Mandilaut (literally 'sea Sama' or 'ocean Sama') in the Philippines; in Malaysia, they identify as Bajau Laut.
Sea-going Bajau are given the pejorative name Pala'au or Palauh by other Bajau groups, which has been adopted by Malaysian mainstream media.

Historically in the Philippines, the term Sama referred to the more land-oriented and settled Sama–Bajau groups, while Bajau referred only to more sea-oriented, boat-dwelling, nomadic groups.
Even these distinctions are fading as the majority of Sama-Bajau have long since abandoned boat living, most for Sama-style piling houses in the coastal shallows.
Sama is believed to have originated from the Austronesian root word sama meaning "together", "same", or "kin".
The exact origin of the exonym Bajau is unclear.
Some authors have proposed that it is derived from a corruption of the Malay word berjauh ('getting further apart' or 'the state of being away') or in Indonesian word it means boat dwelling.
Other possible origins include the Brunei Malay word bajaul, which means "to fish".
The term Bajau has pejorative connotations in the Philippines, indicating poverty in comparison to the term Sama, especially since it is used most commonly to refer to poverty-stricken Sama-Bajau who make a living through begging.
British administrators in Sabah classified the Sama-Bajau as "Bajau" and labelled them as such in their birth certificates.
Thus, the Sama-Bajau in Malaysia may sometimes self-identify as "Bajau".
The Malaysian government recognizes the Sama-Bajau as legally Bumiputera under the "Bajau" subgroup which guarantees easy access to the special sociopolitical privileges also granted to Malaysian Malays; to a point of them identifying as "Malay" for political reasons.
This is especially true for recent Moro Filipino migrants.
The indigenous Sama-Bajau in Malaysia have also started labelling themselves as their ancestors called themselves, such as Simunul.
In the 17th-century, the Spanish priest Francisco Combés calls the Sama-Bajau as the Lutao ("[people who] float on water") in his Historia de las Islas de Mindanao, Iolo, y sus adyacentes (1667), and describes them as building houses on the sea because they "hate land".
They were described as being the subjects of the Sultanates of Sulu and Maguindanao, and they were esteemed for their shipbuilding skills and were commonly hired as crews of warships.


History and origin

For most of their history, the Sama-Bajau have been a nomadic, seafaring people, living off the sea by trading and subsistence fishing.
The boat-dwelling Sama-Bajau see themselves as non-aggressive people.
They kept close to the shore by erecting houses on stilts and travelled using lepa, handmade boats which many lived in.
A 2021 genetic study shows that some Sama-Bajau have Austroasiatic ancestry.


Oral traditions
Most of the various oral traditions and tarsila (royal genealogies) among the Sama-Bajau have a common theme which claims that they were originally a land-dwelling people who were the subjects of a king who had a daughter.
After she is lost by either being swept away to the sea (by a storm or a flood) or being taken captive by a neighbouring kingdom, they were then supposedly ordered to find her.
After failing to do so they decided to remain nomadic for fear of facing the wrath of the king.
One such version widely told among the Sama-Bajau of Borneo claims that they descended from Johorean royal guards who were escorting a princess named Dayang Ayesha for marriage to a ruler in Sulu.
However, the Sultan of Brunei (allegedly Muhammad Shah of Brunei) also fell in love with the princess.
On the way to Sulu, they were attacked by Bruneians in the high seas.
The princess was taken captive and married to the Sultan of Brunei instead.
The escorts, having lost the princess, elected to settle in Borneo and Sulu rather than return to Johor.
This legend is popular among Sabah Sama-Bajau as it legitimises their claim to "Malay-ness" and strengthens their ties to Islam, which puts them in a favourable position in the Bumiputera laws of Malaysia (similar to the usage of the name "Bajau" instead of "Sama").
A second version of the oral stories is told among the Bajau Kubang of Semporna where two siblings named Haklum Nuzum and Salingayah Bungsu from Sulu compete in a boat race to marry a beautiful princess from Johor Sultanate.
The boat race was held by Sultan Mahalikul Alam of Johor where the brothers need to sail all the way to Pulau Angsa which is located near the coast of Johor.
During the race, the boat sailed by Salingayah Bungsu broke, which led to his defeat.
He then promised to not return to Johor and continue his journey all the way to "Sambuanga" (Zamboanga) in southern Philippines where he married a woman and was blessed with a son and daughter later on.
It was believed that his children committed the act of incest which led to him leaving them and sailing to "Omaral" (Omadal Island) out of shame.
On the island, his descendants continue to spread and eventually moved to Bum-Bum Island which is located beside mainland Semporna and the place where they gather is named "Kubang" which means "assemble or gather".
This migration from Omadal Island to Bum-Bum island caused them to lose their nomadic culture and identity which led to the creation of a new Sama-Bajau sub-ethnic group called Bajau Kubang, Bajau Darat (land Bajau) or Bajau Sampulna (Semporna).
Among the Indonesian Sama-Bajau, on the other hand, their oral histories place more importance on the relationship of the Sama-Bajau with the Sultanate of Gowa rather than Johor.
The various versions of their origin myth tell about a royal princess who was washed away by a flood.
She was found and eventually married a king or a prince of Gowa.
Their offspring then allegedly became the ancestors of the Indonesian Sama-Bajau.
However, there are other versions that are more mythological and do not mention a princess.
Among the Philippine Sama-Bajau, for example, there is a myth that claims that the Sama-Bajau were accidentally towed into what is now Zamboanga by a giant stingray.
Incidentally, the native pre-Hispanic name of Zamboanga City is "Samboangan" (literally "mooring place"), which was derived from the Sinama word for a mooring pole, sambuang or samboang.


Modern research on origins

The origin myths claiming descent from Johor or Gowa have been largely rejected by modern scholars, mostly because these kingdoms were established too recently to explain the ethnic divergence.
Whether the Sama-Bajau are indigenous to their current territories or settled from elsewhere is still contentious.
Linguistically, they are distinct from neighbouring populations, especially from the Tausūg who are more closely related to the northern Philippine ethnic groups like the Visayans.
In 1965, the anthropologist David E.
Sopher claimed that the Sama-Bajau, along with the Orang laut, descended from ancient "Veddoid" (Australoid) hunter-gatherers from the Riau Archipelago who intermarried with Austronesians.
They retained their hunter-gatherer lifestyle, though they became more maritime-oriented as Southeast Asia became more populated by later Austronesian settlers.

In 1968, the anthropologist Harry Arlo Nimmo, on the other hand, believed that the Sama-Bajau are indigenous to the Sulu Archipelago, Sulawesi, and/or Borneo, and do not share a common origin with the Orang laut.
Nimmo proposed that the boat-dwelling lifestyle developed among the ancestors of the Sama-Bajau independently from the Orang laut.
A more recent study in 1985 by the anthropologist Alfred Kemp Pallasen compares the oral traditions with historical facts and linguistic evidence.
He puts the date of the ethnogenesis of Sama-Bajau as 800 AD and also rejects a historical connection between the Sama-Bajau and the Orang laut.
He hypothesises that the Sama-Bajau originated from a proto-Sama-Bajau people inhabiting the Zamboanga Peninsula who practised both fishing and slash-and-burn agriculture.
They were the original inhabitants of Zamboanga and the Sulu archipelago, and were well-established in the region long before the first arrival of the Tausūg people at around the 13th century from their homelands along the northern coast of eastern Mindanao.
Along with the Tausūg, they were heavily influenced by the Malay kingdoms both culturally and linguistically, becoming Indianised by the 15th century and Islamised by the 16th century.
They also engaged in extensive trade with China for "luxury" sea products like trepang, pearls, and shark fin.
From Zamboanga, some members of these people adopted an exclusively seaborne culture and spread outwards in the 10th century towards Basilan, Sulu, Borneo, and Sulawesi.
They arrived in Borneo in the 11th century.
This hypothesis is currently the most widely accepted among specialists studying the Austronesian peoples.
This would also explain why even boat-dwelling Sama-Bajau still practice agricultural rituals, despite being exclusively fishermen.
Linguistic evidence further points to Borneo as the ultimate origin of the proto-Sama-Bajau people.
A genetic study of three groups—the Derawan of Northeast Borneo, the Kotabaru of Southeast Borneo, and the Kendari of Southeast Sulawesi—suggested that their origin was in southern Sulawesi.
Their ethnogenesis is estimated to have dated back to around the 4th century AD by an admixture event between the Bugis people and a Papuan group.
The authors suggest that the Sama moved to eastern Borneo at around the 11th century AD, and then towards northern Borneo and the southern Philippines at around the 13th to 14th centuries AD.
They hypothesize that they were driven to migrate during the increase of influence and trading activities of the Srivijaya Empire.
Genetically, the Sama-Bajau are highly diverse, indicating heavy admixture with the locals or even language and cultural adoption by coastal groups in the areas they settled.
However, the study is restricted to the Indonesian Bajo subgroup, and the authors recommend additional studies from Sama-Bajau groups in neighbouring regions.
A 2021 genetic study discovered a unique genetic signal among the Sama-Bajau of the Philippines and Indonesia.
This genetic signal (called the "Sama ancestry" by the authors) identifies them as descendants of an ancient migration of Austroasiatic-affiliated hunter-gatherer groups from mainland Southeast Asia via the now sunken land bridges of Sundaland around 15,000 to 12,000 years ago.
These populations admixed with both the preexisting Negrito populations, and later on, the incoming migrations of the Austronesian peoples (also adopting an Austronesian language in the process).
They are genetically clustered with the Lua and Mlabri peoples of mainland Southeast Asia, as well as the Manobo people of mainland Mindanao.
The study also identifies minimal South Asian gene flow among Sama populations starting at around 1000 years ago.
Sama ancestry was highest among the Sama Dilaut, followed by more land-based Sama.
But it was also detected among other ethnic groups that do not self-identify as Sama in Palawan, Zamboanga, Basilan, Sulu, and Tawi-Tawi.


Historical records

The epic poem Darangen of the Maranao people record that among the ancestors of the hero Bantugan is a Maranao prince who married a Sama-Bajau princess.
Estimated to have happened in AD 840, it is the oldest account of the Sama-Bajau.
It further corroborates the fact that they predate the arrival of the Tausūg settlers and are indigenous to the Sulu archipelago and parts of Mindanao.

Sama-Bajau were first recorded by European explorers in 1521 by Antonio Pigafetta of the Magellan-Elcano expedition in what is now the Zamboanga Peninsula.
Pigafetta writes that the "people of that island make their dwellings in boats and do not live otherwise".
They have also been present in the written records of other Europeans henceforth; including in Sulawesi by the Dutch colonies in 1675, in Sulawesi and eastern Borneo by Thomas Forrest in the 1770s, and in the west coast of Borneo by Spenser St.
John in the 1850s and 1860s.

Sama-Bajau were often widely mentioned in connection to sea raids (mangahat), piracy, and the slave trade in Southeast Asia during the European colonial period, indicating that at least some Sama-Bajau groups from northern Sulu (e.g.
the Banguingui) were involved, along with non-Sama-Bajau groups like the Iranun.
The scope of their pirate activities was extensive, commonly sailing from Sulu to as far as the Moluccas and back again.
Aside from early European colonial records, they may have also been the pirates described by Chinese and Arabian sources in the Straits of Singapore in the 12th and 13th centuries.
Sama-Bajau usually served as low-ranking crewmembers of war boats, directly under the command of Iranun squadron leaders, who in turn answered to the Tausūg datu of the Sultanate of Sulu.
The Bajoe harbour in Sulawesi was the site of a small settlement of Sama-Bajau under the Bugis Sultanate of Bone.
They were significantly involved in the First and Second Bone Wars (1824–1825) when the Royal Netherlands East Indies Army sent a punitive expedition in retaliation for Bugis and Makassar attacks on local Dutch garrisons.
After the fall of Bone, most Sama-Bajau resettled in other areas of Sulawesi.
During the British colonial rule of Sabah, the Sama-Bajau were involved in two uprisings against the North Borneo Chartered Company: the Mat Salleh rebellion from 1894 to 1905, and the Pandasan Affair of 1915.


Modern Sama-Bajau

Modern Sama-Bajau are generally regarded as peaceful, hospitable, and cheerful people, despite their humble circumstances.
However, a significant number are also illiterate, uneducated, and impoverished, due to their nomadic lifestyle.
The number of modern Sama-Bajau who are born and live primarily at sea is diminishing.
Cultural assimilation and modernization are regarded as the main causes.
Particularly blamed is the dissolution of the Sultanate of Sulu, the traditional patron of the Sama-Bajau for bartering fish for farm goods.
The money-based fish markets which replaced the seasonal trade around mooring points necessitates a more land-based lifestyle for greater market penetration.

Starting from the colonial era, some of the native Sama-Bajau in Sabah, Malaysia (such as the West Coast Bajau) start to face the problem of land rights where their native land are not recognized by the government which led to them being evicted from their homes.
This also forced them to build new house in government owned land due to the overcrowding problem in their existing land which led to these villages being misidentified as squatter village created by immigrants (due to their similarity in terms of building structure and surrounding).
The loss of land can also be attributed to local landowners selling their land for profit or inability to manage it anymore and local leaders like the Pengiran from Brunei Sultanate selling their land to British without discussing with the local villager who had problem in acquiring their own land grant in that area.
This land will later on be sold to the local Chinese leading to further marginalization to some of this landless Sama-Bajau.
Moreover, some controversial government programs in Indonesia and Malaysia have also resettled the Sama-Bajau to the mainland.
However, the Malaysian programmes in particular tried to encourage them to pursue agriculture activities with some incentive.
The Sama-Bajau in the Sulu Archipelago were historically discriminated against by the dominant Tausūg people, who viewed boat-dwelling Sama-Bajau as 'inferior' and as outsiders—the traditional Tausūg term for them is the highly offensive Luwaan, meaning "spat out" or "outcast" based on a folk tale  justifying their subservience supposedly out of their trickery and ingratefulness towards God.
They were also marginalised by other Moro peoples because they still practised animist folk religions either exclusively or alongside Islam, and thus were viewed as "uncivilised pagans".
Boat-dwelling and shoreline Sama-Bajau had a very low status in the caste-based Tausūg Sultanate of Sulu.
This survived into the modern Philippines where the Sama-Bajau are still subjected to strong cultural prejudice from the Tausūg.
The Sama-Bajau have also been frequent victims of theft, extortion, kidnapping, and violence from the predominantly Tausūg Abu Sayyaf insurgents as well as pirates.

This discrimination and the continuing violence in Muslim Mindanao have driven many Sama-Bajau to emigrate.
They usually resettle in Malaysia and Indonesia, where they have more employment opportunities.
But even in Malaysia, their presence is still controversial as most of them are illegal immigrants.
Most illegal Sama-Bajau immigrants enter Malaysia through offshore islands.
From there, they enter mainland Sabah to find work as manual labourers.
Others migrate to the northern islands of the Philippines, particularly to the Visayas, Palawan, the northern coast of Mindanao, and even as far as southern Luzon.
Though these are relatively safer regions, they are also more economically disadvantaged and socially excluded, leading to Filipinos sometimes stereotyping the boat-dwelling Sama-Bajau as beggars and squatters.
The ancestral roaming and fishing grounds of the Sama-Bajau straddled the borders of the Philippines, Malaysia, and Indonesia.
And they have sometimes voyaged as far as the Timor and Arafura Seas.
In modern times, they have lost access to most of these sites.
There have been efforts to grant Sama-Bajau some measures of rights to fish in traditional areas, but most Sama-Bajau still suffer from legal persecution.
For example, under a 1974 Memorandum of Understanding, "Indonesian traditional fishermen" are allowed to fish within the Exclusive Economic Zone of Australia, which includes traditional fishing grounds of Sama-Bajau fishermen.
However, illegal fishing encroachment of Corporate Sea Trawlers in these areas has led to concern about overfishing, and the destruction of Sama-Bajau vessels.
In 2014, Indonesian authorities destroyed six Filipino Sama-Bajau boats caught fishing in Indonesian waters.
This is particularly serious for the Sama-Bajau, whose boats are also oftentimes their homes.
Sama-Bajau fishermen are often associated with illegal and destructive practices, like blast fishing, cyanide fishing, coral mining, and cutting down mangrove trees.
It is believed that the Sama-Bajau resort to these activities mainly due to sedentarisation brought about by the restrictions imposed on their nomadic culture by modern nation-states.
With their now limited territories, they have little alternative means of competing with better-equipped land-based and commercial fishermen and earn enough to feed their families.
The Indonesian government and certain non-governmental organisations have launched several programs for providing alternative sustainable livelihood projects for Sama-Bajau to discourage these practices (such as the use of fish aggregating devices instead of explosives).
Medical health centres (puskesmas) and schools have also been built even for stilt-house Sama-Bajau communities.
Similar programs have also been implemented in the Philippines.
With the loss of their traditional fishing grounds, some refugee groups of Sama-Bajau in the Philippines are forced to resort to begging (agpangamu in Sinama), particularly diving for coins thrown by inter-island ferry passengers (angedjo).
Other traditional sources of income include selling grated cassava (magliis), mat-weaving (ag-tepoh), and jewellery-making (especially from pearls).
Recently, there have been more efforts by local governments in the Philippines to rehabilitate Sama-Bajau refugees and teach them livelihood skills.
In 2016, the Philippine Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources started a project for distributing fishing boats, gear, and other livelihood materials among Sama-Bajau communities in Luzon.
This was largely the result of raised awareness and an outpouring of support after a photo of a Sama-Bajau beggar, Rita Gaviola (dubbed the "Badjao Girl"), went viral in the Philippines.
One Tausug Muslim who was interviewed insulted the Bajau people, who are also Muslim but he declared the Bajau as non-Muslim and compared killing a Bajau to killing a monkey, saying it was not worth the effort for a juramentado to attack Bajau.
There are Tausug in Sulu who takfir the Bajau and declared them as non-Muslims despite them following Islam and discriminate against them due to their lifestyle.
In Indonesia many discriminate against them with false stereotypes, accusing them of using love potions on women and were untrustworthy.


Subgroups
The Sama-Bajau are fragmented into highly diverse subgroups.
They have never been politically united and are usually subject to the land-based political groups of the areas they settle, such as the Sultanate of Brunei, the former Sultanate of Sulu and Sultanate of Bone.

Most subgroups of Sama-Bajau name themselves after the place they originated from (usually an island).
Each subgroup speaks a distinct language or dialect that are usually mutually intelligible with their immediate neighbouring subgroup in a continuous linguistic chain.
In the Philippines, the Sama-Bajau can be divided into three general groups based on where they settle:

Sama Bihing or Sama Lipid – The "shoreline Sama" or "littoral Sama".
These are the Sama-Bajau which traditionally lived in stilt houses in shallows and coastal areas.
An example is the Sama Simunul.
They are originally from the larger islands of Tawi-Tawi.
They have a more flexible lifestyle than the Sama-Gimba (Dilaut Origin) and will farm when there is available land.
They usually act as middlemen in trade between the Sama Dilaut and other land-based peoples.
Sama Dea, Sama Deya, Sama Dilaya or Sama Darat – The "land Sama".
These are the Sama-Bajau which traditionally lived in island interiors.
Some examples are the Sama Sibutu and the Sama Sanga-Sanga.
They are usually farmers who cultivate rice, sweet potato, cassava, and coconuts for copra through traditional slash-and-burn agriculture (in contrast to the plow agriculture technology brought by the Tausūg).
They are originally from the larger islands of Tawi-Tawi and Pangutaran.
In the Philippines, the Sama Dea will often completely differentiate themselves from the Sama Dilaut.
Sama Dilaut, Sama Mandilaut, Sama Pala'u, or Bajau Laut – The "sea Sama" or "ocean Sama".
In the Philippines, the preferred ethnonym is Sama Dilaut; while in Malaysia, they usually identify as Bajau Laut.
This subgroup originally lived exclusively on elaborately crafted houseboats called lepa, but almost all have taken to living on land in the Philippines.
Their home islands include Sitangkai and Bongao.
They are the Sama-Bajau subgroup most commonly called "Bajau" or "Badjao", though Filipino Sama Dilaut considers it offensive.
They sometimes call themselves the "Sama To'ongan" (literally "true Sama" or "real Sama"), to distinguish themselves from the land-dwelling Sama-Bajau subgroups.
A recent study shows that the Sama-Dilaut people of the Philippines have Indian or South Asian ancestry.
Other minor Sama-Bajau groups named after islands of origin include the Sama Bannaran, Sama Davao, Sama Zamboanga Sikubung, Sama Tuaran, Sama Semporna, Sama Sulawesi, Sama Simunul, Sama Tabawan, Sama Tandubas (or Sama Tando' Bas), and Sama Ungus Matata.
Mixed-heritage Sama-Bajau and Tausūg communities are sometimes known as "Bajau Suluk" in Malaysia.
People of multiple ethnic parentage may further identify with a three-part self-description, such as "Bajau Suluk Dusun".
The following are the major subgroups usually recognised as distinct:

Bajo (Indonesia) – Also known as "Same'" (or simply "Sama") by the Bugis; and "Turijene" or "Taurije'n" (literally "people of the water"), "Bayo", or "Bayao" by the Makassar.
They are Sama-Bajau groups who settled in Sulawesi and Kalimantan, Indonesia through the Makassar Strait from as early as the 16th century.
They have spread further into nearby islands, including the Lesser Sunda Islands, Maluku Islands, and Raja Ampat Islands.

Banguingui or Balangingi (Philippines, Malaysia) – Also known as "Sama Balangingi", "Sama Balanguingui", or "Sama Bangingi".
Native to the Philippines.
Some have recently migrated to Sabah.
They are sometimes considered distinct from other Sama-Bajau.
They have a more martial-oriented society and were once part of regular sea raids and piracy against coastal communities and passing ships.


East Coast Bajau (Philippines, Malaysia) – Term used to classify various Sama-Bajau group that live in north and east coast of Sabah.
Many from this subgroup are considered native of Sabah but unlike the West Coast Bajau, the East Coast Bajau have a closer cultural and historical ties with the Sama-Bajau in the Philippines (with their descendants making up a good number of population of this subgroup in the form of Moro refugee, legal migrants, illegal immigrants and naturalized citizens especially after 1972).
This subgroup can be split into two group, the fully sedentary "Bajau Daratan Pinggir Pantai" or "Bajau Darat" (seashore Bajau or land Bajau) and the semi-nomadic "Bajau Laut" (sea Bajau).
The first group tend to differentiate themselves from the second group which is the Bajau Laut (who are called with the pejorative term, "Pala'u") and they are made up of different Bajau sub-ethnic like Bajau Kubang, Bajau Ubian, Bajau Simunul, Bajau Sengkuang, etc.
The second group still identify themselves as Bajau Laut or Sama Dilaut and while some have retained their original boat-dwelling lifestyle, many have built their homes on land.
The seashore Bajau like the Bajau Kubang build houseboats like Lepa to be sold to the Bajau Laut who will then use it as their own home.
The East Coast Bajau are known for the colourful annual Regatta Lepa festival, which occurs from 24 to 26 April.
Samal (Philippines, Malaysia) – "Samal" (also spelled "Siamal" or "Siyamal") is a Tausūg and Cebuano term and is sometimes considered offensive.
Their preferred endonym is simply "Sama", and they are more accurately a general subgroup of Sama Dea ("land Sama") native to the Philippines.
A large number are now residing around the coasts of northern Sabah, though many have also migrated north to the Visayas and southern Luzon.
They are predominantly land-dwelling.
They are the largest single group of Sama-Bajau.
In Davao del Norte, the Island Garden City of Samal was possibly named after them.
Ubian or Obian (Philippines, Malaysia) – Originated from the island of South Ubian in Tawi-Tawi, Philippines.
They reside in sizeable minorities living around the towns of Kudat (being the majority in Banggi Island), Semporna, Kota Kinabalu (in Gaya Island) and Kota Belud (in area like Kampung Baru-Baru and Kuala Abai) in Sabah, Malaysia.
In Sabah, they are part of the East Coast Bajau subgroup and can be further divided into two group based on their migration wave.
The first group is the Ubian who arrived at Sabah prior to World War II (with one of the earliest documented account being in 1888) and their descendants has since acculturated with local culture of Sabah (including the culture of West Coast Bajau).
Based on the constitution, they are recognised as native of Sabah due to them being born in Sabah during the colonial era.
The second group is the Ubian that arrive from Southern Philippines as asylum seekers starting from 1972 due to the Moro Conflict and this group are considered as illegal immigrants and foreigners to the citizen of Sabah.
However, many of them have since obtain Malaysian Identification Card (IC) which possibly link to the Project IC controversy in Sabah.
Despite this, the descendants of the second group that had obtained IC has start to acculturate with local Malaysian and Sabahan lifestyle and consider themselves as citizen of the country.

West Coast Bajau (Malaysia) – Also known as "Sama Kota Belud".
Native to the western coast of Sabah, particularly around Kota Belud District.
They prefer to call themselves by the general ethnonym "Sama", not "Bajau"; and their neighbours, the Dusuns also call them "Sama".
British administrators originally defined them as "Bajau".
They are referred to as West Coast Bajau in Malaysia to distinguish them from the Sama Dilaut of eastern Sabah and the Sulu Archipelago.
They are known for having a traditional horse culture.
The following are subgroups that do not self-identify as Sama, although they are culturally related to the Sama people and speak a Sama-Bajaw language:

Abaknon (Philippines) – a subgroup from Capul, Northern Samar in the Visayas Islands that speak the Abaknon language.
They were colonised and converted to Christianity early by the Spanish and today are culturally Visayan.
Their folk history claims that their ancestors originated from the southern Philippines (identified in some sources as the island of Balabac).
According to their oral tradition, they refused to convert to Islam and submit to the rule of the Moro sultanates during the 1300s AD.
Led by a datu named Abak, their people left the island, eventually reaching and settling the island now known as Capul.
Jama Mapun (Philippines, Malaysia) – sometimes known by the exonyms "Sama Mapun", "Sama Kagayan", "Bajau Kagayan", or just "Kagayan".
They are from the island of Mapun, Tawi-Tawi (formerly known as Cagayan de Sulu) and some of them have settled in Sabah (in area like Banggi Island and Sandakan).
Their culture is heavily influenced by the Sulu Sultanate.
They are relatively isolated and do not usually consider themselves as Sama.
Yakan (Philippines) – Found in the mountainous interior of the island of Basilan.
Though they may have been the ancestors of the Sama-Bajau, they have become linguistically and culturally distinct and are usually regarded as a separate ethnic group.
They are exclusively land-based and are usually farmers.
Yakan are also a horse-riding culture, similar to the West Coast Bajau.
They are renowned for their weaving traditions.
They resisted Tausug rule during the early formation of the Sulu Sultanate, eventually gaining recognition as a separate political entity.
They are only partially Islamized, with a significant minority retaining indigenous anito beliefs or practising Folk Islam.



Languages

The Sama–Bajau peoples speak some ten languages of the Sama–Bajau subgroup of the Western Malayo-Polynesian language family.
Sinama is the most common name for these languages, but they are also called Bajau, especially in Malaysia.
Most Sama-Bajau can speak multiple languages.
The Sama-Bajau languages were once classified under the Central Philippine languages of the Malayo-Polynesian geographic group of the Austronesian language family.
But due to marked differences with neighbouring languages, they were moved to a separate branch altogether from all other Philippine languages.
For example, Sinama pronunciation is quite distinct from other nearby Central Philippine languages like Tausūg and Tagalog.
Instead of the primary stress being usually on the final syllable; the primary stress occurs on the second-to-the-last syllable of the word in Sinama.
This placement of the primary stress is similar to Manobo and other languages of the predominantly animistic ethnic groups of Mindanao, the Lumad peoples.
In 2006, the linguist Robert Blust proposed that the Sama-Bajaw languages derived from the Barito lexical region, though not from any established group.
It is thus a sister group to other Barito languages like Dayak and Malagasy.
It is classified under the Bornean geographic group.
Sama-Bajau languages are usually written in the Jawi alphabet.


Culture


Religion

Religion can vary among the Sama-Bajau subgroups; from strict adherence to Sunni Islam, forms of folk Islam (itself influenced by Sufi traditions of early Muslim missionaries), to animistic beliefs in spirits and ancestor worship.
There is a small minority of Catholics and Protestants in the Bajau diaspora, particularly from Davao del Sur in the Philippines.

Among the modern coastal Sama-Bajau of Malaysia, claims to religious piety and learning are an important source of individual prestige.
Some of the Sama-Bajau lack mosques and must rely on the shore-based communities such as those of the more Islamised or Malay peoples.
Some of the more nomadic Sama-Bajau, like the Ubian Bajau, are much less adherent to orthodox Islam or even unreligious.
They practice a syncretic form of folk Islam, revering local sea spirits, known in Islamic terminology as Jinn.

The ancient Sama-Bajau were animistic, and this is retained wholly or partially in some Sama-Bajau groups.
The supreme deities in Sama-Bajau mythology are Umboh Tuhan (also known as Umboh Dilaut, the "Lord of the Sea") and his consort, Dayang Dayang Mangilai ("Lady of the Forest").
Umboh Tuhan is regarded as the creator deity who made humans equal to animals and plants.
Like other animistic religions, they fundamentally divide the world into the physical and spiritual realms which coexist.
In modern Muslim Sama-Bajau, Umboh Tuhan (or simply Tuhan or Tuan) is usually equated with Allah.

Other objects of reverence are spirits known as umboh ("ancestor", also variously spelled omboh, m'boh, mbo', etc.).
Traditionally, the umboh referred more specifically to ancestral spirits, different from the saitan (nature spirits) and the jinn (familiar spirits); some literature refers to all of them as umboh.
These include Umboh Baliyu (the spirits of wind and storms), and Umboh Payi or Umboh Gandum (the spirits of the first rice harvest).
They include totemic spirits of animals and plants, including Umboh Summut (totem of ants) and Umboh Kamun (totem of mantis shrimp).
The construction and launch of sailing vessels are ritualised, and the vessels are believed to have a spirit known as Sumangâ ("guardian", literally "one who deflects attacks").
The umboh are believed to influence fishing activities, rewarding the Sama-Bajau by granting good luck favours known as padalleang and occasionally punishing by causing serious incidents called busong.
Traditional Sama-Bajau communities may have shamans (dukun) traditionally known as the kalamat.
The kalamat are known in Muslim Sama-Bajau as the wali jinn (literally "custodian of jinn") and may adhere to taboos concerning the treatment of the sea and other cultural aspects.
The kalamat presides over Sama-Bajau community events along with mediums known as igal jinn.
The kalamat and the igal jinn are said to be "spirit-bearers" and are believed to be hosts of familiar spirits.
It is not, however, regarded as a spirit possession, since the igal jinn never lose control of their bodies.
Instead, the igal jinn are believed to have acquired their familiar spirit (jinn) after surviving a serious or near-fatal illness.
For the rest of their lives, the igal jinn is believed to share their bodies with the particular jinn who saved them.
One important religious event among the Sama-Bajau is the annual feast known as pag-umboh or magpaay-bahaw, an offering of thanks to Umboh Tuhan.
In this ceremony, newly harvested rice (paay-bahaw) are dehusked (magtaparahu) while Islamic prayers (duaa) are recited.
They are dried (magpatanak) and are then laid out in small conical piles symbolic of mountains (bud) on the living room floor (a process known as the "sleeping of rice").
After two or three nights, two-thirds are set aside for making sweet rice meals (panyalam), while one-third is set aside for making sweet rice cakes (durul).
Additional prayers (zikir), which includes calling the names of ancestors out loud, are offered to the Umboh after the rice meals have been prepared.
Pag-umboh is a solemn and formal affair.
Another annual religious ceremony among the boat-dwelling Sama Dilaut is the pagkanduli (literally "festive gathering").
It involves ritual dancing to Umboh Tuhan, Dayang Dayang Mangilai, and ancestral ghosts called bansa.
The ritual is first celebrated under a sacred dangkan tree (strangler figs, known elsewhere in the Philippines as balete) symbolising the male spirit Umboh Tuhan and afterwards in the centre of a grove of kama'toolang trees (pandan trees) symbolising the female spirit Dayang Dayang Mangilai.

The trance dancing is called mag-igal and involves female and male and igal jinn, called the jinn denda and jinn lella respectively.
The jinn denda perform the first dance known as igal limbayan under the dangkan tree, with the eldest leading.
They are performed with intricate movements of the hands, usually with metal fingernail extensions called sulingkengkeng.
If the dance and music are pleasing, the bansa are believed to take possession of the dancers, whereupon the wali jinn will assist in releasing them at the end of the dance.
The bansa are not feared as they are regarded as spirits of ancestors.
Temporarily serving as hosts for the bansa while dancing to music is regarded as a "gift" by the living Sama Dilaut to their ancestors.
After the igal limbayan, the wali jinn will invite the audience to participate, to celebrate, and to give their thanks.
The last dance is the igal lellang, with four jinn lella performing a warrior dance, whereupon the participants will proceed to the kama'toolang grove.
There they will perform rituals and dance (this time with male and female dancers together), symbolically "inviting" Dayang Dayang Mangilai to come with them back to the dangkan tree.
Further games and celebrations are held under the original dangkan tree before the celebrants say their farewells to the spirits.
Unlike pag-umboh, pagkanduli is a joyous celebration, involving singing, dancing, and joking among all participants.
It is the largest festive event among the Sama Dilaut communities.
Aside from pagkanduli and magpaay-bahaw, public dances called magigal jinn may occur.
During these celebrations, the igal jinn may be consulted for a public séance and nightly trance dancing.
In times of epidemics, the igal jinn is called upon to remove illness-causing spirits from the community.
They do this by setting a "spirit boat" adrift in the open sea beyond the village or anchorage.


Boat dwelling

A few Sama-Bajau still live traditionally.
They live in houseboats (lepa, balutu, and vinta being the most common types) which generally accommodate a single nuclear family (usually five people).
The houseboats travel together in flotillas with houseboats of immediate relatives (a family alliance) and co-operate during fishing expeditions and in ceremonies.
A married couple may choose to sail with the relatives of the husband or the wife.
They anchor at common mooring points (called sambuangan) with other flotillas (usually also belonging to extended relatives) at certain times of the year.
These mooring points are usually presided over by an elder or headsman.
The mooring points are close to sources of water or culturally significant locations like island cemeteries.
There are periodic gatherings of Sama-Bajau clans usually for various ceremonies like weddings or festivals.
They generally do not sail more than 40 km (24.85 mi) from their "home" moorage.
They periodically trade goods with the land-based communities of other Sama-Bajau and other ethnic groups.
Sama-Bajau groups may routinely cross the borders of the Philippines, Malaysia, and Indonesia for fishing, trading, or visiting relatives.
Sama-Bajau women also use a traditional sun-protecting powder called burak or borak, made from water weeds, rice, and spices.


Music, dance, and arts

Sama-Bajau traditional songs are handed down orally through generations.
The songs are usually sung during marriage celebrations (kanduli pagkawin), accompanied by dance (pang-igal) and musical instruments like pulau (flute), gabbang (xylophone), tagunggo' (kulintang gongs), biula (violin), and in modern times, electronic keyboards.
There are several types of Sama-Bajau traditional songs, they include: isun-isun, runsai, najat, syair, nasid, bua-bua anak, and tinggayun.
Among the more specific examples of Sama-Bajau songs are three love songs collectively referred to as Sangbayan.
These are Dalling Dalling, Duldang Duldang, and Pakiring Pakiring.
The most well-known of these three is Pakiring Pakiring (literally "moving the hips"), which is more familiar to the Tausūg in its commercialised and modernised form Dayang Dayang.
The Tausūg claim that the song is native to their culture, and whether the song is originally Tausūg or Sama-Bajau remain controversial.
Most Sama-Bajau folk songs are becoming extinct, largely due to the waning interest of the younger generations.
Sama-Bajau people are also well known for weaving, needlework skills, and their association with tagonggo music.
In visual arts, Sama-Bajau have an ancient tradition of carving and sculpting known as okil (also okil-okil or ukkil).
These were used to decorate houseboats and animistic ritual objects.
They were used most prominently for Sama grave markers which are found in the ancient traditional burial grounds of the Sama people in some (usually uninhabited) islands of Sulu and Tawi-Tawi.
These include some of the oldest examples of okil, which are usually carved from coral and limestone.
Wooden carved grave markers are common later on, usually made from or carved from the boat belonging to the deceased.
These are usually carved into human figures that represent the deceased.
These graves are often decorated with buntings and food offerings, reflecting the ancient ancestor worship (anito) traditions of the Sama.
Okil later inspired the very similar okir traditions of the Maranao people.


Horse culture

The more settled land-based West Coast Bajau are expert equestrians – which makes them remarkable in Malaysia, where horse riding has never been widespread anywhere else.
The traditional costume of Sama-Bajau horsemen consists of a black or white long-sleeved shirt (badu sampit) with gold buttons (betawi) on the front and decorated with silver floral designs (intiras), black or white trousers (seluar sampit) with gold lace trimmings, and a headpiece (podong).
They carry a spear (bujak), a riding crop (pasut), and a silver-hilted keris dagger.
The horse is also caparisoned with a colourful outfit called kain kuda that also have brass bells (seriau) attached.
The saddle (sila sila) is made from water buffalo hide and padded with cloth (lapik) underneath.


Society

Though some Sama-Bajau headsmen have been given honorific titles like "Datu", "Maharaja" or "Panglima" by governments (like under the Sultanate of Brunei), they usually only had little authority over the Sama-Bajau community.
Sama-Bajau society is traditionally highly individualistic, and the largest political unit is the clan cluster around mooring points, rarely more.
Sama-Bajau society is also more or less egalitarian, and they did not practice a caste system, unlike most neighbouring ethnic groups.
The individualism is probably due to the generally fragile nature of their relationships with land-based peoples for access to essentials like wood or water.
When the relationship sours or if there is too much pressure from land-based rulers, the Sama-Bajau prefer to simply move on elsewhere.
Greater importance is placed on kinship and reciprocal labour rather than formal authority for maintaining social cohesion.
There are a few exceptions, however, like the Jama Mapun and the Sama Pangutaran of the Philippines, who follow the traditional pre-Hispanic Philippine feudal society with a caste system consisting of nobles, notables, and commoners and serfs.
Likely introduced by the Sultanate of Sulu.
Other exceptions include the West Coast Bajau of Kota Belud district in Sabah where their intermarriages with the Iranun (who practiced the Kedatuan system) has given some of their descendants the title of Datu and even develop a similar Kedatuan system.
This group that possessed Datu title are referred to as jomo kedatuan (Kedatuan group or people).
The Bajau (and Iranun) of Kota Belud also follow bloodline class system which divided to 4 classes, orang lima belas (15 people) for Kedatuan, orang sepuluh (10 people), orang tujuh (7 people), and hamba for slaves.
However in the modern day context, the hamba class was elevated to orang tujuh since slave group no longer exist.
Since many Bajau leader there was born from Kedatuan group, this give them some rights to make decisions and action which are recognised by other classes to a certain degree especially in traditional custom practices.


Biological characteristics


Free-diving adaptations

Sama-Bajau are noted for their exceptional abilities in free-diving.
Divers work long days with the "greatest daily apnea diving time reported in humans" of greater than 5 hours per day submerged.
Some Bajau intentionally rupture their eardrums at an early age to facilitate diving and hunting at sea.
Many older Sama-Bajau are therefore hard of hearing.
More than a thousand years of subsistence freediving associated with their life on the sea appear to have endowed the Bajau with several genetic adaptations to facilitate their lifestyle.
A 2018 study showed that Bajau spleens are about 50 percent larger than those of a neighbouring land-based group, the Saluan, letting them store more haemoglobin-rich blood, which is expelled into the bloodstream when the spleen contracts at depth, allowing breath-holding dives of longer duration.
This difference is apparently related to a variant of the PDE10A gene.
Other genes that appear to have been under selection in the Bajau include BDKRB2, which is related to peripheral vasoconstriction, involved in the diving response; FAM178B, a regulator of carbonic anhydrase, which is related to maintaining blood pH when carbon dioxide accumulates; and another one involved in the response to hypoxia.
These adaptations were found to likely result from natural selection, leading to a uniquely increased frequency of the relevant alleles within the sampled Bajau population relative to other referenced eastern Asian populations.
Members of another group, the Moken, have been found to have better underwater vision than Europeans, although it is not known if this trait has a genetic basis.


Depictions in popular culture

It has been suggested by some researchers that the Sama-Bajau people's visits to Arnhem Land gave rise to the accounts of the mysterious Baijini people in the myths of Australia's Yolngu people.
In 2010, the newly discovered squidworm, Teuthidodrilus samae, was named after the Sama-Bajau people of Tawi-Tawi.
In Avatar: The Way of Water, the Metkayina Clan is an oceanic Na'vi clan that is partially inspired by the Sama-Bajau.
The Sama-Bajau have also been the subject of several films.
They include:

Badjao (1957) – A Filipino film directed by Lamberto V.
Avellana
Bajau Laut: Nomads of the Sea (2008) – A Singaporean TV documentary produced by Matthew Malpelli.
The Mirror Never Lies (2011) Indonesian film directed by Kamila Andini
Thy Womb (2012) – A Filipino drama film directed by Brillante Mendoza
Bohe': Sons of the Waves (2013) – A Filipino short film produced by Nadjoua and Linda Bansil
Anak ng Badjao (1987) – A Filipino Film directed by Jose Antonio Alonzo and Jerry O.
Tironazona
Sahaya (2019) – A Filipino TV series directed by Zig Dulay


Notable Sama-Bajau


Politics
Mat Salleh (Datu Muhammad Salleh) – Sabah warrior from Inanam, Kota Kinabalu, during the British administration of North Borneo.
Tun Datu Mustapha (Tun Datu Mustapha bin Datu Harun) – The first Yang di-Pertua Negeri (governor) of Sabah and the third Chief Minister of Sabah from Kudat.
Tun Said Keruak – The seventh Governor of Sabah and the fourth Chief Minister of Sabah from Kota Belud.
Tun Sakaran Dandai – The eighth Governor of Sabah and also the eighth Chief Minister of Sabah from Semporna.
Ahmadshah Abdullah – The ninth Governor of Sabah from Inanam, Kota Kinabalu.
Salleh Said Keruak (Datuk Seri Panglima Mohd Salleh bin Tun Mohd Said Keruak) – The ninth Chief Minister of Sabah from Kota Belud and a former federal minister with the rank of Senator in the Dewan Negara.
Osu Sukam (Tan Sri Datuk Seri Panglima Osu bin Sukam) – The twelfth Chief Minister of Sabah from Papar.
Mohd Nasir Tun Sakaran (Dato' Mohd Nasir bin Tun Sakaran Dandai) – Sabah politician from Semporna.
Shafie Apdal (Dato' Seri Hj Mohd Shafie Bin Apdal) – The fifteenth Chief Minister of Sabah from Semporna.
Pandikar Amin Mulia – Speaker of the Dewan Rakyat, former Member of Parliament of Malaysia from Kota Belud.
Askalani Abdul Rahim (Datuk Askalani Bin Abdul Rahim) – Former Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports from Semporna.
Abdul Rahman Dahlan – Former Cabinet Minister from Tuaran as well the former Member of Parliament in the Dewan Rakyat for the constituency of Kota Belud from 2008 to 2018.
Isnaraissah Munirah Majilis – Member of Parliament of Kota Belud in the Dewan Rakyat (also half Kadazan-Dusun ancestry on paternal side).
Manis Muka Mohd Darah – Former Member of Sabah State Legislative Assembly for Bugaya.
Sultan Ombra Amilbangsa - From Simunul, in what is now the province of Tawi-Tawi.
He was a member of the National Assembly of the Philippines from 1935 to 1938, and from 1943 to 1944, and the Philippines House of Representatives from 1945 to 1949, and from 1951 to 1961.
In 1961, he filed House Bill No.
5682, for the granting of independence to the Province of Sulu as a sovereign nation due to what he felt was the negligence of the central government over the concerns of his province.
He married Dayang-Dayang Hadji Piandao Kiram, niece and adopted daughter of Sultan Jamalul Kiram II.
He succeeded as Sulu Sultan from 1936 to 1964.


Arts and entertainment
Haja Amina Appi — Filipino master mat weaver and teacher from Ungos Matata, Tandubas, Tawi-Tawi; recipient of the Philippine National Living Treasures Award.
Adam (singer) AF2 (Aizam Mat Saman) – Malaysian singer and actor, great-nephew of Tun Ahmadshah Abdullah (his grandmother is the elder sister of the latter) from Inanam, Kota Kinabalu.
Sitti – Filipino bossa nova singer.
Zizi Kirana – Malaysian rapper from Semporna.
Siti Surianie Julkarim (the late Siti Surianie Julkarim) – Malaysian singer who gained fame through the reality show known as Mentor on TV3 from Likas, Kota Kinabalu.
Atu Zero – Malaysian comedian and actor from Kudat.
Wawa Zainal – Malaysian actress from Lahad Datu.
Azwan Kombos – Malaysian actor from Kota Belud.
Rita Gaviola – Filipino actress in the Pinoy Big Brother Season 7.


Sports
Bana Sailani – A Filipino Olympic swimmer who represented the Philippines in the 1956 Summer Olympics, the 1958 Asian Games (where he won 5 bronze medals, and 1 silver), and the 1960 Summer Olympics.
He was more popularly known as Bapa' Banana.
Estino Taniyu – A Malaysian swimmer from the Royal Malaysian Navy who swam across the English Channel in 13 hours, 45 minutes, and 45 seconds on 21 September 2012.
Matlan Marjan – Former Malaysian football player and the former Sabah FA captain from Kota Belud.
Eldio "Imam" Gulisan – A Filipino freediver who set the Philippines national record at the Japanese Cup 2019 on 7 September 2019.
Featured in Episode 3 of the Netflix series Home Game.
Zainizam Marjan –  Former Malaysian football player, younger brother of Matlan from Kota Belud.


See also
Lumad
Gaya Island
Orang laut
Sama–Bajaw languages
Sea Gypsies, a disambiguation page


Notes


References


Further reading


Newspapers
More information on the Bajaus at the BBC
The last of the sea nomads at The Guardian
The sea gypsies of Sulu Archived 2 January 2015 at the Wayback Machine at the Khaleej Times


Books
François-Robert Zacot (2009).
Peuple nomade de la mer, les Badjos d'Indonésie, éditions Pocket, collection Terre Humaine, Paris


Video
Short BBC documentary on the Bajau [1]

Velimir Terzić
Velimir Terzić (Serbian: Велимир Терзић; 26 May 1908 – 13 December 1983) was a Serbian and Yugoslav People's Army captain, partisan general, and historian.


Military career
Terzić was born on 26 May 1908 in Golubovci, near Podgorica, Montenegro.
Prior to World War II, he was captain of the Royal Yugoslav Army.
After Yugoslavia's defeat in the April War, he joined the Montenegrin partisans and took part in the 13 July Uprising.
He commanded the Bijelo Polje unit.
By the summer of 1942, he became the deputy of general Arso Jovanović, chief of partisan Supreme HQ.
Terzić  also commanded the main staff of Montenegro, was deputy commander of the 5th Montenegrin Proletarian brigade, chief of staff of the fifth operative zone and the main staff of Croatia.
In April 1944, along with Milovan Djilas, he headed a Yugoslav military mission to the Soviet Union.
After the war, he remained in the Yugoslav People's Army and had many roles, including chief inspector and head of the Military Academy.
He retired from the army in 1955 and became head of the Military History Institute (Vojno-istorijski institut) in Belgrade.


Work as historian
In 1963, Terzić's Jugoslavija u aprìlskom ratu 1941 was published, a monograph which explored the reasons behind Yugoslavia's defeat in the April war.
In it Terzić lists a Croatian fifth column as an important factor in the Yugoslav army's fall.
He singles out Croatian Peasant Party leader Vladko Maček as having collaborated with the Ustaše and negotiating with the Axis powers, which led to a sedition among Croatian forces resulting in the collapse of the whole army.
According to Terzić, many Croats abandoned Yugoslavia in favor of an independent Croatian state and enthusiastically welcomed German troops into Zagreb.
The historian Wayne S.
Vucinich cites the book as among "the best studies of the coup d'état to appear in Yugoslavia" at the time but also notes that it was controversial.
It sparked a wave of criticism in Croatia and condemnation from the Communist Party Press.
Among the criticism levied at Terzić were that he relied on half-truths, poor sources and oversimplified the situation, in addition to ignoring the official Communist Party narrative for the Yugoslav capitulation.
Stjepan Ščetarić, a scholar from Yugoslavia, criticized Terzić for focusing on the behavior of individual peoples as opposed to more pertinent issues, such as the relations between different Yugoslav nationalities, corruption and lack of preparation by the state and military leadership, as well as the broader aggression on the part of the Axis forces.
Jozo Tomasevich writes that Terzić's claim that Maček left the government to negotiate with Germans without notifying anyone is wrong.
He also says that the fifth column had little effect on the ultimate outcome of the invasion.
The scholar Aleksa Djilas writes that "despite the considerable evidence" Terzić shows, he tends to overplay the Croatian desertion, as many Croatian units actively fought the Germans and most Croatian officers "remained loyal until 10 April when the NDH was proclaimed" which brought an end to Yugoslavia and in turn, their loyalty to the government.
He adds that the army simply reflected the weak Yugoslav political system and the main reasons for the defeat were the lack of leadership, the army's subpar equipment and outdated tactical and strategical techniques.
During the 1960s, Yugoslav WWII historiography shifted from a "brotherhood and unity" narrative to debates between Serbian and Croatian nationalists about each group's role in the war, leading Josip Broz Tito and his Communist Party to repeatedly denounce "bourgeois nationalist tendencies" in historiography.
Terzić's book exacerbated tensions.
His work prompted another former Partisan general-turned historian, and future President of Croatia Franjo Tudjman to publish his own thesis in which he highlighted the impact of "Great Serbian hegemonism" of the Yugoslav Kingdom.
The 1983 expanded edition of the book once again received sharp rebuke in Croatia, and contributed to the growth of Serbian nationalism.
The historian Kenneth Morrison writes that it is an "exceptionally detailed analysis of the events that led to the dismemberment and occupation of Yugoslavia."
In August 1983, Terzić made the exaggerated claim that a million Serbs were killed at the Jasenovac concentration camp.


Bibliography
"Završne operacije Jugoslovenske Armije 1945 godine" in Istoriski Zapisi Vol.
18, Issue 2.
(1961)
Jugoslavija u aprìlskom ratu 1941 , Titograd; Grafički zavod.
(1963)
Slom Kraljevine Jugoslavije 1941, two vols.
Belgrade; Narodna Knjiga.
(1982-1983)


Honours


References


Sources
Books

Ali Shah Miri
Ali Shah Miri (Kashmiri and Persian: علی شاہ میری) also known as Ali Shah (Persian: علی شاہ) was eighth Sultan of Kashmir from 1413 to 1418 and then again from 1419 to 1420.
Ali Shah belonged to the Shah Mir dynasty and was succeeded by his younger brother Zain-ul-Abidin.


Reign
After Sikandar's death, his eldest son Mir succeeded him as the Sultan, having adopted the title of Ali Shah.
Ali Shah became the seventh sultan of the Shah Mir dynasty, and reigned between 1413 and 1420.
His reign was peaceful.
Under Ali Shah's regime, Suhabhatta became the Prime Minister.
Ali Shah was defeated by Sultan Zain-ul-Abidin at Thanna with the help of Jasrath Khokhar, the ruler of Sialkot.
The fate of Ali Shah is uncertain: he may have died in captivity or have been put to death by Khokhar.


Dethronement
Shahi Khan, a son of Sultan Sikander the  ruler of Kashmir, was charged with the rule of the kingdom of Kashmir when his elder brother, Ali Shah, left the kingdom on a pilgrimage to Mecca.
It was at this time that Ali Shah gave Shahi Khan the title of Zain-ul-Abidin.
Although a religious man, Ali Shah was weak-willed and his desire to attain Mecca buckled under descriptions of the arduous journey ahead.
He abandoned his pilgrimage when he arrived at the court of his father-in-law, the king of Jammu, and raised an army consisting of soldiers from Jammu and Rajauri in order to regain his throne.
The ancient texts vary regarding why it was that Zain-ul-Abidin relinquished his recently acquired status without a fight but there is no disagreement that this is in fact what happened.


Struggle for throne and death
Retiring to Sialkot, Zain-ul-Abidin sought the support of its chief, Jasrat Khokhar.
Ali Shah became angered when this support was forthcoming and he rashly set out with his army to challenge Khokhar.
The forces met at Thanna and Khokhar defeated the challenger, who had ignored the advice of his father-in-law to hold back until the Jammu army could join him.
Zain-ul-Abidin was then able to return to the capital city of Srinagar, where he was welcomed by his subjects.
The fate of Ali Shah is uncertain: he may have died in captivity or have been put to death by Khokhar.


References

Hasan, Mohibbul (2005) [first published 1959], Kashmir Under the Sultans (Reprinted ed.), Delhi: Aakar Books, ISBN 978-81-87879-49-7

Roland Chin
Professor Roland Chin Tai-hong, BBS, JP (Chinese: 錢大康; born 1952) is a former President of the Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU).
Before that he was the Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor as well as the Chair Professor of Computer Science in the University of Hong Kong (HKU).


Career
After receiving the bachelor and PhD degrees specialising in Electrical Engineering at the University of Missouri, Columbia in 1975 and 1979 respectively, Chin had spent two years in the Goddard Space Flight Center of NASA in Greenbelt, Maryland.
He subsequently pursued a teaching career and commenced it at the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering in the University of Wisconsin–Madison in Madison, Wisconsin where he had stayed for about one and a half decade from 1981 to 1995.
Chin then served in Hong Kong and joined the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) as the Chair Professor of Computer Science at HKUST.
With the course of time he started to undertake crucial role in the institution, getting to serve as Vice-President for Research and Development (2003–2006) and then as Deputy President and Provost (Acting: 2006–2007; Permanent: 2007–2010).
In 2010 he was unanimously agreed by the selection committee in the final stage to be appointed Provost and Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hong Kong.
In May 2015 he accepted the appointment at HKBU and assumed the office later in September that year after his provostship at HKU.


References

WFNP
WFNP (88.7 MHz FM) is a college radio station licensed to Rosendale, New York.
The station, which is run by students at State University of New York at New Paltz, broadcasts at 6 kilowatts ERP from a tower on Illinois Mountain in nearby Lloyd, New York.
WFNP is one of a handful of time-share FM stations remaining in the United States; since its 1990 sign-on it has shared the 88.7 frequency with WRHV (originally WMHX-FM), a simulcast of classical-formatted WMHT-FM Schenectady.
WFNP-FM is on the air from 7:00 pm–5:00 a.m.
weeknights and 10:00 p.m.–5:00 a.m.
weekends while school is in session (September 1 to November 30 and February 1 until April 30).
Since the mid-1990s, WFNP has looked to find its own frequency and currently possesses a construction permit to move to 98.9 MHz and expand to 24/7 programming.
Though WFNP signed on in 1990, the station has been on in some form since 1971 when it began as a carrier current AM station heard solely on campus, which went by the name WNPC, and later WRNP (for Radio New Paltz) on 640 AM.
After the launch of the WFNP (FM), the AM remained on the air with its own programming by day and an FM simulcast by night.
WFNP (AM) lasted until the early 2000s when it was succeeded by the combination of a webcast and a simulcast on WNPC, the campus TV station.
As a tip to its heritage, the non-FM programming is referred to as "the AM station".
From the late 1970s to around 1980, the station used the callsign WRSW, until student management realized there was already a real WRSW licensed to Warsaw, Indiana.
In addition to being heard in the dorms on 640 AM, local cable TV subscribers could get the station on 91.9 FM if they connected their cable to their home stereo receiver.
During the spring of 1980, new student management began to explore the possibility of an actual FM station.
 In the fall of 1980, a petition was circulated on campus, and student government came up with the funds necessary to perform a frequency search for the new station.
A company known as Educational FM associates did the search for a fee of $1,800.00.
 A copy of the petition (the actual roots of today's WFNP) will be posted at a later date.
Some key student personnel from those early days include Dennis O'Keefe, who later became a campus librarian -and whose name adorns a bench outside Sojourner Truth library in his memory; passionate Beatles fan and music director Nelson Metviner (who was memorialized after being killed in an auto accident with a plaque that hung in the station office for many years), engineer Alex Abrash, Tim Cook, Chuck Grant, Nathan "Nato" Mishan, Robin Milling, and general manager Jeff Jensen.
It took several more years for the station to finally reach the goal of being an over-the-air FM radio station.


See also
College radio
List of college radio stations in the United States


External links
Official website

Facility details for Facility ID 63126 (WFNP)   in the FCC Licensing and Management System
WFNP in Nielsen Audio's FM station database

Anastasiya Kozhenkova
Anastasiya Kozhenkova (Ukrainian: Анастасія Коженкова; born 19 January 1986 in Kovel, Volyn Oblast) is a Ukrainian rower.
She won a gold medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics in the quadruple sculls event with Kateryna Tarasenko, Nataliya Dovhodko, and Yana Dementyeva.


References


External links
Anastasiia Kozhenkova at World Rowing
Anastasiia Kozhenkova at Olympics.com
Anastasiia Kozhenkova at the Paris 2024 Summer Olympics
Anastasiya Kozhenkova at Olympedia 
Anastasiya Kozhenkova on Instagram

Structured English Immersion
Structured English Immersion (SEI) is a total immersion bilingual education technique for rapidly teaching English to English language learners.
The term was coined by Keith Baker and Adriana de Kanter in a 1983 recommendation to schools to make use of Canada's successful French immersion programs.
The Canadian model was developed to encourage bilingualism through immersing Anglophones in the minority language and replaced many English-only laws in various Canadian provinces before the 1960s, while in the United States the same approach was advocated to force minority speakers to adopt English.
More recently, SEI has been defined as a methodology in which English language learners (ELLs) learn English through structured and sequential lessons.
Specially developed for ELLs, these lessons are based, to a large degree, on the mainstream curricula.
In a 2009 U.S.
Supreme Court decision, Horne v.
Flores, the majority opinion stated, "Research on ELL instruction indicates there is documented, academic support for the view that SEI is significantly more effective than [transitional] bilingual education.
Findings of the Arizona State Department of Education in 2004 strongly support this conclusion." The chairman of the Center for Equal Opportunity, Linda Chavez, praised the Supreme Court ruling, noting "the failure of bilingual education in performing the number-one job of our public schools, which is to teach children English so they can succeed in 21st century America." SEI is mandatory in California, Arizona and Massachusetts where voter initiatives opted to restrict the use of bilingual education in preference for SEI.



SEI framework
Only Arizona mandates that its public schools implement SEI models as follows:

Significant amounts of the school day are dedicated to the explicit teaching of the English language, and students are grouped for this instruction according to their level of English proficiency.
"The English language is the main content of SEI instruction.
Academic content plays a supporting, but subordinate, role."
"English is the language of instruction; students and teachers are expected to speak, read, and write in English."
"Teachers use instructional methods that treat English as a foreign language."
"Students learn discrete English grammar skills."
"Rigorous time lines are established for students to exit from the program."
SEI program graduates continue to receive support services until they are reclassified as "fluent English proficient" whereby federal law then requires students be monitored for two years after reclassification.


SEI by state
In Arizona, where SEI is required of all schools in the state, all textbooks, materials, and assessments used in an SEI classroom must be aligned to the Arizona K-12 English Language Learner Proficiency Standards and the Discrete Skills Inventory.
The Arizona English Language Learner Assessment (AZELLA) is used to measure English proficiency of SEI students in Arizona.


References

1956 International Stock Car Road Race
The International Stock Car Road Race was the 37th race of the 1956 NASCAR Grand National Series.
 It took place at Road America near Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin on August 12, 1956.
It was won by Tim Flock.
The race attracted particular interest, as road course racing was unusual for American stock car racing at the time.
Ahead of the race, it was unclear how American stock cars would perform on the newly-built race track, which was regarded to be particularly challenging.
The race is considered to be the first occasion in which NASCAR ran a race during rain.


Background
While the race was officially sanctioned by NASCAR, the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) provided support for the event and foreign cars were allowed entry.
Ultimately, the race featured 25 American vehicles as well as a Jaguar Mark VII.
Hubert Schroeder, secretary of the FIG's sporting arm, served as overseer of the race.
The prospect of a NASCAR road race on the challenging new road course attracted particular interest, and due to this, it was attended by several racing executives: NASCAR's Bill France Sr., the United States Auto Club's Duane Carter, and the Sports Car Club of America's Jim Kimberly.
At the time, all three organizations were aspiring to replace the AAA Contest Board as the new main United States race-sanctioning body, as the American Automobile Association had withdrawn from involvement in automobile racing the previous year.

Road America had opened the previous year.
This was the first premier series race held at Road America.
Road America was considered the nation's finest road course at the time, and was regarded as a challenging course, with tight corners and challenging grade changes.
Road course racing was uncommon at the time in American stock car racing.
The event was promoted as being "America's First International Stock Car Road Race".
There was much advanced interest and speculation among how American cars would perform in maneuvering the challenging course.
Those seeking to prognosticate how the race would go on challenged by lack of recent precedent of similar races in the United States, with Time magazine writing, "[The race] was extraordinary because it was held on a road course, a thing so rare in recent American stock car racing that some oldtimers were casting back to the Elgin, Ill.
races of more than two decades ago for a suitable precedent.


Race overview
During qualifications, Frank Mundy had the fastest time, having completed three laps of the course in 9 minutes and 27.25 seconds.
During the race, Buck Baker drove the car that Mundy had driven for qualifications, and therefore began the race in pole position.
NASCAR made the unusual decision to limit cars to only ten gallons of fuel at the start of the race.
An estimated crowd of 10,000 spectators attended, despite poor weather.
The race is considered to be the first occasion in which NASCAR ran a race in the rain.
The rainy weather before and during the race impacted it.
Shortly before the planned start time for the race, the rain began with a heavy lightning storm that delayed the start by approximately 40 minutes.
After this storm ended, the race began.
The rain left as much as two-inches of water over portions of the track.
After the race, many notable observers praised the racers' handling of their vehicles considering the slick track conditions.
The race saw drivers take frequent pit stops, mostly for gas, but also for tire changes.
While, before the race, there had been concerns about how the stock cars' brakes would perform on the challenging course, there were few brake problems.
However, several drivers suffered engine problems.
Pole driver Buck Baker led the race from lap one though lap five.
Tim Flock then led the race between laps 6 and 12.
Marvin Panch then led the race from lap 6 through lap twelve.
As the race rounded the 100 mile mark, Panch remained in the lead with Speedy Thompson, Mundy, Flock, and Baker respectively following him.
 In the 37th lap, Speedy Thompson overtook Panch, and Panch soon after suffered a rear-end assembly failure which forced him to withdraw from the race.
Thompson then led the race beginning in the 36th lap.
As the race reached its 200th mile, Thompson remained in the lead, with Flock, Billy Myers, Fireball Roberts, Paul Goldsmith, and Joe Eubanks respectively following him.
 After remaining in the lead through 53rd lap, Thompson suffered engine failure and retired from the race.
Tim Flock then led from the 54th lap onwards, winning the race.
Flock was racing for Bill Stroppe in a 1956 Mercury.
Flock averaged 71.48 miles per hour (115.04 km/h) in his 3 hours, 29 minutes, and 50 seconds of race time.
The race would be the last of Flock's 39 career wins in the premier division of NASCAR (Grand National Series/NASCAR Cup Series).
Flock's victory was a 17 second photo finish over fellow Stroppe racer Billy Myers.
Fireball Roberts (racing for Pete DePaolo), Paul Goldsmith (racing for Smokey Yunick), and Joe Eubanks (racing for James Satcher) respectively placed third, fourth, and fifth.
Among the 26 drivers that competed at Road America were five racing for Pete DePaolo, three racing for Bill Stroppe, and three racing for Pete Kiekhaefer.
The season-dominant Kiekhaefer team did not see much success in the race.
Buck Baker started the race at first and Speedy Thompson started at fifth.
While Baker led the first five laps, he ultimately finished eighth and suffering engine problems and dropping out in the 61st lap.
While Thompson led between laps 36 and 53, he suffered engine failure in the 53rd lap and retired from the race, ultimately finishing eighteenth.
The third Kiekhaefer driver, Frank Mundy, finished fourteenth.
Race winner Tim Flock had started the 1956 season as a Kiekhaefer racer, but had left Keikhaefer's team due to disagreement with Keikhaefer's strict management style.
While the DePaolo team's Fireball Roberts finished third, the rest of the team fared less fortunately.
DePaolo drivers Junior Johnson and Bill Amick started the race at third and fourth.
However, they quickly faced trouble.
Johnson placed last, dropping out of the race in the first lap due to issues with his car's clutch.
Amick also suffered clutch problems and dropped out of the race in the tenth lap, placing second-to last.
 The DePaolo team also saw Curtis Turner crash out of the race in the 21st lap after suffering brake failure on the final corner, and ultimately placing third-to-last.
DePaulo driver Ralph Moody fared the second-best among DePaolo racers, placing sixteenth, suffering rear-end damage and dropping out of the race in the 56th lap.
The Stroppe team saw two of its racers, Tim Flock and Billy Myers, respectively finish first and second.
Its third racer, Bobby Myers, suffered a crash and placed 21st.
While the race was considered a success, NASCAR would not again race at Road America until 2010, when the NASCAR Xfinity Series began racing there.
NASCAR's premier division did not return to Road America until the 2021 season.


General stats


Results


References

Santa Olaya, Bayamón, Puerto Rico
Santa Olaya is a barrio in the municipality of Bayamón, Puerto Rico.
Its population in 2010 was 6,057.


History
Santa Olaya was in Spain's gazetteers until Puerto Rico was ceded by Spain in the aftermath of the Spanish–American War under the terms of the Treaty of Paris of 1898 and became an unincorporated territory of the United States.
In 1899, the United States Department of War conducted a census of Puerto Rico finding that the population of Santa Olaya barrio was 1,100.


See also

List of communities in Puerto Rico


References

Let It Rock (Great White album)
Let it Rock is the eighth studio album by the American hard rock band Great White, released in 1996.
It was recorded after their split with long-time manager and co-writer Alan Niven.
After the acoustic sound of 1994's Sail Away, the band was determined to return to their hard rock roots.


Track listing
"My World" (Don Dokken, Matthew Johnson, Mark Kendall, Michael Lardie, Jack Russell) – 5:28
"Lil Mama" (Kendall, Lardie, Russell, Dave Spitz) – 4:27
"Where is the Love" (Lardie, Russell) – 4:22
"Hand on the Trigger" (Lardie, Russell) – 5:17
"Easy" (Kendall, Lardie, Russell) – 4:26
"Pain Overload" (Audie Desbrow, Kendall, Lardie, Russell) – 4:41
"Lives in Chains" (Kendall, Lardie, Russell, Spitz) – 6:20
"Anyway I Can" (Teddy Cook, Desbrow, Kendall, Lardie, Russell) – 6:07
"Man in the Sky" (Todd Griffin, Russell) – 4:38
"Ain't No Way to Treat a Lady" (Floyd D.
Rose,  Scott Palmerton) – 2:45
"Miles Away" (Kendall, Lardie, Russell) – 5:32


Japanese edition track listing
"Lil Mama" – 4:27
"Ain't No Way to Treat a Lady" – 2:45
"My World" – 5:28
"Pain Overload" – 4:41
"Easy" – 4:26
"Lives in Chains" – 6:20
"Man in the Sky" – 4:38
"Hand on the Trigger" – 5:17
"Where Is the Love" – 4:22
"Anyway I Can" – 6:07
"Burnin' House of Love" – 3:52 (bonus track)
"Miles Away" – 5:32


Personnel


Great White
Jack Russell – lead and backing vocals, producer
Mark Kendall – guitars, backing vocals
Michael Lardie – guitars, keyboards, banjo, flute, backing vocals, producer, engineer
Audie Desbrow – drums


Additional musicians
Dave Spitz – bass
Cody McDonald – harmonica
Steffen Pressley – alto sax
Alicia Previn a.k.a.
Lovely Previn – violin
Don Teschner – viola
Martin Tillman – cello


Production
Dito Godwin – producer
Ulysses Noriega, Darian Rundall, Stacey Hanlon – assistant engineers
Steve Hall – mastering


References

Paul Craig (disambiguation)
Paul Craig (born 1987) is a Scottish mixed martial artist.
Paul Craig may also refer to:

Paul Craig (politician) (1920–2005), American politician in Iowa
Paul Craig (legal scholar) (born 1951), professor of English law
Paul Craig (runner) (born 1953), Canadian middle-distance runner
Paul Craig (soccer) (born 1988), Canadian soccer player
Paul Craig (dancer), American principal ballet dancer

Heinrich Köberle
Heinrich Köberle (11 October 1946–15 April 2023), was a German athlete.
He competed in wheelchair marathons in a handcycle, and won four gold medals in marathons at the Paralympic Games - more than any other athlete.
He held the record for the fastest men's marathon in his disability category (the most severe for wheelchair athletes), set in Berlin in 1995, in 2:23:08.


Biography
Köberle first participated in the Paralympic Games when the marathon was introduced in 1984.
He competed in category 1A (wheelchair marathon for athletes with the most severe level of disability).
Only three athletes began the race, and only Köberle reached the finish line, obtaining his first Paralympic gold medal with a time of 3:41:47.

He defended his title in 1988, in a more competitive event, in which all four starters reached the finish line.
Köberle came first, drastically improving his previous performance, completing the marathon in 2:50:39 - almost seven minutes ahead of second-placed Rainer Kueschall (of Switzerland).

In 1992, the number of competitors increased to ten.
Köberle won in 2:32:56, this time only twenty-four seconds ahead of Kueschall - but setting a Paralympic record which still stands.

In 1996, he won gold for the fourth consecutive time, in 2:49:11.
The slower time was sufficient for gold, as four of his six opponents failed to complete the race.
Those four gold medals established a record which remains unbeaten in the Paralympic marathon, in any disability category.

In 2000, he competed for the fifth and final time, and completed the race in 2:48:45, well short of his personal best achieved five years earlier.
His performance was sufficient for a silver medal ; Alvise de Vidi of Italy won gold, just over a minute ahead of him.
He died in 2023 aged 76.


References

House at 463 Park Ave.
The House at 463 Park Ave., at 463 Park Ave.
in Park City, Utah, was built around 1886.
 It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1999.
It is a one-and-a-half-story "wood-frame, cross-wing type house with gabled roofs on each wing.
The East-facing/, vernacular structure has some muted hints of Victorian Eclecticism in its detailing, typical of the Park City's building boom period."  It was renovated in 1995.
 The property has terracing in its front yard, with stone retaining walls from the time of the original construction of the house.


References

Ilse Bischoff
Ilse Bischoff (1901–1990) was an American artist, book illustrator, and author.
Best known for her skill in woodblock printing, she also painted in oils and casein and made graphite drawings.
She remained firmly committed to representational art throughout her life, choosing human figures for her main subjects during most of career and turning toward still lifes toward the end.
She illustrated many books, including two of which she was author.
Family wealth allowed her to pursue the multiple facets of her career free of worries about critical reception or the income that her work would bring her.
She nonetheless welcomed both the praise that was given to her art and writings and the tangible rewards they earned her.
She received art training in New York City and Munich, traveled extensively in Europe for most of her life, and maintained studios at her homes in New York and Vermont.
At the beginning of her career she won the top prize in the first annual exhibition of American block prints held by the Philadelphia Print Club, a book she wrote mid-career won a reviewer's unqualified praise, and, late in her career, the director of an art center praised her "forthright choice of natural subjects" and said her work conveyed "the beauty, wit and charm of factual reality".


Early life and education
Bischoff was born on November 21, 1901, in New York City.
As a child she loved to draw and, as she grew older, her mother encouraged this interest.
From kindergarten through twelfth grade she attended the Horace Mann School, a liberal co-educational component of Columbia Teachers College located on the campus of the university.
The art director at Horace Mann, Belle Boas, helped Bischoff develop her interest in art into a creative skill.
Boas and fellow teacher, Lucia Williams Dement, taught using an innovative method that aimed, as they wrote, "toward individuality of expression".
They had pupils work from nature rather than copying famous artists and, when viewing famous works of art, saw the development of their pupils' "critical judgment" as a main goal.
They summarized their approach in a 1917 publication describing Horace Mann's curriculum, writing, "The work must grow upward from the child's point of view rather than downward from the adult's, thereby keeping the fearless, naïve, childlike interest and expression toward which the conventional adult mind usually looks back as upon a lost Eden".
Although the family's wealth ensured that Bischoff would not need to earn a living, her mother encouraged her to attend a school where she could learn a useful trade.
After graduating from Horace Mann in 1919, she consequently enrolled in the New York School of Applied Design for Women where she received good applied-arts training in how to make meticulously accurate drawings of flowers.
In 1920, she enrolled in the Parsons School of Design (then known as the New York School of Fine and Applied Art) where she primarily studied costume design.
Then, having realized that she would prefer to work in the fine arts, she enrolled in the Art Students League where she learned illustration and painting from Frank DuMond and etching and lithography from Joseph Pennell.
Bischoff's parents were both German-American and the family spoke German in their home when she was young.
She later said English was effectively her second language as a child.
Her fluency in German gave her an advantage when, beginning in 1922, she began to make regular trips to Germany and other European countries to study art.
Apart from the years of World War II, she visited Europe almost every year.
Her longest period of foreign travel came in about 1927-1928 when she interrupted her training at the Art Students League to study privately in Munich under the German portraitist and printmaker, Georg Buchner (1858–1914).
After returning from Munich, Bischoff completed her education at the Art Students League.


Career in art

While studying in Munich, Bischoff had learned now to make woodblock prints and in 1927 won top prize in the first annual exhibition of American block prints held by the Philadelphia Print Club.
Her prize-winning print, "Homeward Bound", can be seen at left.
Describing its subject as "two peasant women, bowed beneath the weight of heavily laden baskets on their backs, who are proceeding wearily along a road", a critic for The Philadelphia Inquirer praised its "fascinating conception".
A year later, Bischoff showed block prints and drawings with watercolor washes in a solo exhibition at the Ferargil Galleries in New York.
She had made her first book illustrations the previous year and included some of the woodcuts from that work in the exhibition.
A critic for The New York Times called the prints "effective" and the drawings "amusing".
In 1929, the Philadelphia Print Club gave her a solo exhibition that contained some of what a critic called her "celebrated block prints" displaying "modern in feeling and execution and in mood embody both sombreness and humor".
The following year, John Sloan selected a piece by Bischoff for the "Fifty Prints of the Year" touring exhibition sponsored by the American Institute of Graphic Arts.
Writing in Parnassus, Gertrude A.
Rothschild said Bischoff's block print showed "fine restraint" in portraying "the sensation-hungry faces at a bullfight".
In that year she also showed at the Philadelphia Print Club's fourth annual Block Print Exhibition including pictures of Spanish subjects that a critic praised as especially brilliant.

In 1930, Bischoff rented a spacious artist's studio and apartment in the Sherwood Studio Building on West 57th Street in Manhattan.
That year, she showed prints in the Philadelphia Print Club's second annual exhibition.
Reviewing the show, C.H.
Bonte said two of them, "At the Fair-Sevilla" and "Gypsy Dancers".
were "Spanish transcriptions of effulgence, the disposition of the dancers being especially notable".
Throughout the 1930s, Bischoff continued to show in exhibitions of block prints assembled by the Philadelphia Print Club for the Brooklyn Museum.
Reviewing the 1931 show, a critic said Bischoff's "Funeral in Soviet Russia 1930" from this show "might well be timeless in its representing of Slavic peasant grief".
This print is shown at right.
During these years, she also participated in group shows at the Salons of America (1934), the National Academy (1945), the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts (1937), and the Whitney Museum of American Art (1937).
In 1942, when the war prevented her from spending summers in Europe, she bought a house in Hartland, Vermont, and began spending May to October in it.
She did not immerse herself in country life, however, but continued to see herself as a visitor from Manhattan.

At the second annual Portrait of America exhibition in New York, held in 1945, Bischoff's painting, "Harlem Loge", won a $500 award  Made about 1934, the painting depicts African-American patrons in box seats at the Alhambra Theater in Harlem.
It toured the country during the late 1930s in an exhibition of 32 paintings assembled by the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts and sponsored by the American Federation of Arts.
This painting is shown at left.
Although the figures it shows seem to be caricatures, it received positive critical attention as well as the prize.
Critics saw it as humorous, dramatic, or powerful.
Calling it one of the most striking works in the show, a critic said it was "subtle and rich" and praised the composition as "exceptionally well handled".
Bischoff retained the painting and, in 1948, gave it to the gallery of Dartmouth College, located a few miles from her summer home in Hartland.
Dartmouth exhibited her works from 1947 until the end of her career, including 1947 (solo), 1949 (solo), 1954 (group of three), 1955 (solo), 1961 (group), 1966 (retrospective), and 1986 (solo).
A solo exhibition of her work at the Southern Vermont Arts Center in 1968 provoked a disagreement among local critics.
Writing in the Rutland Daily Herald on July 10, Tom Slayton said the paintings she showed were "technically superb" but conveyed "synthetic emotion".
He complained that a portrait called "Mary" was a patronizing depiction of a "good Negro" that lacked "real life".
A week later, James L.
Montague, head of the Southern Vermont Arts Center, wrote a letter to the editor of the Daily Herald in which he quoted the head of the Dartmouth art department in rebuttal to Slayton.
The quote praised Bischoff's "skillful, precise drawing, her delicate, sure coloring, and her forthright choice of natural subjects" and said her work conveyed "the beauty, wit and charm of factual reality".
On July 19, writing in the Bennington Banner, Jerome Wichelns called her paintings "stereotyped and imitative and very much wanting in originality".
He complained that Bischoff seemed to him to shy away from abstraction "into some kind of confused representative realism".
Throughout her career, Bischoff was ruthless in destroying work that she thought to be inferior.
In an oral history interview, held late in her life, she said, "I've had wonderful cleanings out of my studios when I've gone like a whirlwind through things and torn them up, put them in the fire.
I always feel cleansed afterward".
She did not actively court critics and collectors.
In the same interview, she said, "I like people to like my paintings if I think they know something or just have simply good taste, but I never craved publicity.
I liked it when I got it, but I didn't go out for it".
Bischoff died at her summer home in Vermont on December 5, 1990.


Artistic style

Throughout most of her career, Bischoff chose mainly human figures as subjects.
Her 1950 drawing of a standing female nude is shown at right.
She had high regard for great portraitists like Albrecht Dürer and John Singer Sargent as guides but did not place great value on her skill at capturing a human likeness.
As she began to spend more time working at her summer place in Vermont, she turned more to still lifes, there not being human models available to her there.
Committed to her own version of realism from an early date, she did not become aware of pure abstraction until well into her career and once she had encountered it, she rejected it as a style.
She said she "liked the little niche" she had created for herself and "went right on working in it".

She worked in oils until about 1955 when, at the suggestion of her friend, Paul Cadmus, she began to work in casein.
Late in life, she said that, unlike most artists, she adopted an increasingly controlled, meticulous style during the course of her career, whereas they, as she saw it, became freer as they aged.
The still life of a fungus, shown at left, is an example of her work in this style.


Career as illustrator
Although Bischoff was primarily known as a book illustrator throughout virtually all of her career, contemporary sources give only indirect information on the origins and progress of her work in that field.
In 1927, the year she began exhibiting her art, her first book illustrations appeared in a children's book called Marty Lou's Treasure by Mary Dickerson Donahey (Garden City, N.Y., Doubleday, Page & Co.).
The following year, woodcuts she had made appeared in a book of Albanian folk tales: Tricks of Women, & Other Albanian tales translated by Paul Fenimore Cooper (New York, W.
Morrow & Company).
Five books appeared in 1930 with her woodcuts or drawings: Temptation of St.
Antony translated by Cyrus Brooks (New York, I.
Washburn), Hansel the Gander by Katharine Kuebler (New York, W.
Morrow & Co.), Street of the Islands by Stark Young (New York, C.
Scribner's Sons), Carl and Anna by Leonhard Frank (New York, G.P.
Putnam's Sons), The Night Before Christmas by Clement C.
Moore (New York, Holiday House).
She continued to contribute illustrations for books during the 1930s, including Gay Madelon by Ethel Calvert Phillips (New York, Houghton Mifflin Co., 1931), Katrina Grows Up by Helen Eggleston Haskell (New York, E.P.
Dutton & Co., 1932), Bird Began to Sing by Rachel Field (New York, W.
Morrow & Co., 1932), Old Man Daantje's Beard by Leonard Roggeveen, translated by David C.
De Jong (New York, Appleton-Century Co., 1933), and In Calico and Crinoline by Eleanor Maria Sickels (New York, Viking Press, 1935).
Two books, Nursery rhymes of New York City by Louis How (New York, The Harbor Press, 1931) and Regional Rhymes of New York City by Louis How (New York, Harbor Press, 1937), won awards from the American Institute of Graphic Arts.
In printing them, the publisher printed Bischoff's engravings directly from her woodblocks using four colors.
A reviewer said that in the second of them she had "expressed perfectly the gayety of spirit that animated the author in immortalizing some seventy-eight places surrounding the village of Manhattan." A reviewer gave a qualified appreciation Bischoff's illustrations in a book published in 1934—You Can't Pet a Possum by Arna Bontemps (New York, William Morrow & Co.)—saying "Although the faces in Ilse Bischoff's illustrations are unnecessarily caricatured, the drawings on the whole have an undeniable charm and humor" and a reviewer of a 1939 book—Peter Peppercorn by Ethel Calvert Phillips (Boston, Houghton Mifflin)—was forthrightly critical, writing, "Ilse Bischoff's drawings, which are inclined to burlesque the scenes and characters they portray, seem out of key".
In contrast, Little Grey Gown by Mabel Leigh Hunt (New York, Frederick A.
Stokes Co..
1939) was given a positive reception.
A reviewer wrote, "This is a lovely little book to read and to handle, of a distinguished size and shape, and decorated with Ilse Bischoff's sensitive drawings".
Bischoff, herself, said she did not regard these efforts very highly.
She made an exception to this tepid point of view in discussing one of the last books for which she supplied illustrations.
In 1982 she said her favorite illustrated book was Gigi; the Story of a Merry-go-round Horse, by Elizabeth Foster (Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1943).

Books containing Bischoff's illustrations in the immediate postwar years include Super-market secret by Emilie Vinall (New York, T.
Y.
Crowell Co., 1945) and Reuben and His Red Wheelbarrow by Alice Dalgliesh (New York, Grosset & Dunlap, 1946).
A newspaper reproduced one of her illustrations in its review of the 1949 edition of a fourteen-volume encyclopedia, Childcraft (Chicago, Field Enterprises) saying, "The spirit of heraldry and chivalry characteristic of the Middle Ages is vividly expressed in this drawing by Ilse Bischoff".
This illustration is shown at right.


Career as author

In the late 1940s, Bischoff took a course in creative writing taught by Mabel Robinson at Columbia University.
She said writing came easily to her but felt she did not have it in her to write literary fiction.
She recalled thinking that, as she later said, she "didn't have anything to say in a novel".
Her one effort at fictionalized biography, Proud heritage (New York, Coward-McCann, 1949), did not please her and received mixed reviews.
She herself said the book was "awful".
However, both the reviewers and she personally liked two other books she wrote, one a children's story and the other a memoir.
The Wonderful poodle (New York, T.
Y.
Crowell Co., 1949) received a lengthy review in The New York Times that concluded, "It all adds up to a story full of tenderness and humor.
Miss Bischoff's illustrations present the staid splendor of the castle and the robustiousness of peasant life with equal grace".
A reviewer for the Chicago Tribune summarized the plot and wrote, "The story, although not especially original, will appeal to youngsters for its loving boy-dog relationship.
And the author's illustrations, highly stylized, are truly distinguished'.
A reviewer for the Louisville Courier-Journal said, "the illustrations give color, intensity and more meaning to the tale of one little Hungarian Prince Rudolf and his remarkable poodle.
Almost any question brought up by the locale of the story is answered so clearly for the child in pictures and the tale is told with such a quality of warmth and feeling that any child will get a rich experience in human emotions from it".
An illustration from page 20 of the book is shown at left.
Bischoff's best-known book is Drive Slowly—Six Dogs (New York, Viking Press, 1953) which was given a glowing review in The New York Times by the author, Charles Jackson, who wrote, "This is a splendid book, gay, moving, ribald, sad, gallant, tender and wonderfully well written".
He said the book unconsciously portrayed Bischoff "as a woman of uncommon good sense, an excellent sense of humor and a rare appreciation of the joy of living".
He added a belief that the book was a better-written dog story than the one he had previously considered to be the best: Thomas Mann's A Man and His Dog (New York, Knopf, 1930), originally published as Herr und Hund (Berlin, S.
Fischer, 1919) and also appearing as Bashan and I (London, W.
Collins & Co, 1923).
In 1965, Bischoff published two articles in the Russian Review.
The first on Élisabeth Vigée Le Brun and the second on Étienne Maurice Falconet, both 18th-century French artists who worked in Imperial Russia.
She said she had wanted to publish a full biography of Vigée Le Brun but could not find enough information about her life and wrote the article instead.


Personal life and family
Bischoff was born on November 21, 1901, in New York City.
Her birth name was Ilse Martha Bischoff.
Her father, Ernst Bischoff (1864–1935), was a German-born chemist who founded and directed a pharmaceutical business called the Ernst Bischoff Company, Inc.
Her mother was Adele Timme Bischoff (1872–1931), daughter of a German-American textile manufacturer in New York.
Having grown up speaking German with her parents and siblings and having traveled extensively in Europe throughout her life, Bischoff later came to believe that she missed out on the immersion in American culture that was common among the artists with whom she associated.
Still, for all the affection she felt for Munich and Paris, she said she loved New York City best.
Responding to an oral history question in 1982, she said, "Oh, I loved New York.
I loved New York till the day I left.
I adored it.
Absolute New Yorker".
Bishoff had a younger brother, Edward Timme Bischoff (1909-1940).
He was president of the Ernst Bischoff Company as well as a yachtsman and owner of a boatyard in Essex, Connecticut.
Bischoff had an older sister, Carola Bischoff (1899–1984).
Carola Bischoff married Ernst Carl Otto Friedrich von Duisburg (1884–about 1945) in 1929 and divorced him in 1932.
In 1934 she married Harold Graves Terwilliger (1888–1976) and remained married to him until his death.
Von Duisburg was owner of large agricultural estates in what was then Vilgelow, Germany, and is now Wielogłowy, Poland.
Terwilliger, who was a business executive at the time of their marriage, who became president of the Ernst Bischoff Company after the death of Bischoff's brother, Edward.
In addition of making his son the Bischoff company's president, Ernst Bischoff had put his children, once grown to adulthood, on the firm's board of directors.
Bischoff never married.
Late in life, she said she felt very much alone in the early 1930s after her parents had died.
Nonetheless, she led an active social life.
She enjoyed her membership in a private club for professional women (the Cosmopolitan Club) but disliked committee work and, partly for that reason, did not participate in artists' organizations.
In the 1940s, Bischoff and her sister began buying fine porcelain pieces by Meissen and Nymphenburg mainly from German refugees in America.
Eventually each of them amassed substantial collections.
For many years, Bischoff divided her time between an apartment overlooking the East River on the 16th and 17th floors of a building on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and a brick house in Hartland, Vermont.
She died on December 6, 1990, at her home in Hartland, Vermont.


Notes


References

History of Jacksonville, Florida
The city of Jacksonville, Florida, began to grow in the late 18th century as Cow Ford, settled by British colonists.
Its major development occurred in the late nineteenth century, when it became a winter vacation destination for tourists from the North and Midwest.
Its development was halted or slowed by the Great Fire of 1901, the Florida Land Bust of the 1920s, and the economic woes of the 1960s and 70s.
Since the late 20th century, the city has experienced steady growth, with a new federal building constructed in downtown in 2003.
Since 1940, Jacksonville has also been a major port for the United States Navy.
The city is a thriving metropolis with over a million citizens.
Due to its consolidated city-county government structure, it has the largest municipal population among Florida cities, as well as the largest land area of any city in the contiguous United States.


Early days


Ancient history
Archaeological evidence indicates 6,000 years of human habitation in the area.
Pottery has been found dating to 2500 BC, nearly the oldest in the United States and second to artifacts of the Savannah River area.
In the 16th century, the beginning of the historical record period, the area was inhabited by the Mocama, a coastal subgroup of the Timucua indigenous Native Americans.
At the time of contact with Europeans, most Mocama villages in present-day Jacksonville were part of the powerful chiefdom known as the Saturiwa, centered on Fort George Island near the mouth of the St.
Johns River.
They had a complex society, well-adapted to the environmental conditions of the area.


Colonial and territorial history

In 1513, Spanish explorers landed in Florida and claimed their discovery for Spain (see Spanish Florida).
The first Europeans to visit the area were Spanish missionaries and explorers from this period.
In February 1562, French naval officer Jean Ribault and 150 settlers arrived seeking land for a safe haven for the French Huguenots, Protestants suffering religious persecution in France.
Ribault explored the mouth of the St.
Johns River before moving north and establishing the colony of Charlesfort on what is now Parris Island, South Carolina.
Ribault returned to France for supplies, but the French Wars of Religion had broken out during his absence.
His return to Florida was delayed as a result.
Without leadership or provisions, the colonists abandoned Charlesfort.
In 1564 Ribault's former lieutenant, René Goulaine de Laudonnière, launched a new expedition to found a colony on the St.
Johns River.
On June 22, 1564, the settlers established Fort Caroline atop the St.
Johns Bluff.
Laudonnière made an alliance with the local tribe of Timucua Indians, the Saturiwa.
He also forged friendly relations with their competitors, the Utina tribe, who lived upriver to the south (around what is now Palatka and the Lake George area).
Ribault intended to resupply Fort Caroline in early 1565, but was again delayed.
As a result, the colony faced famine, three mutinies, and eventually warfare with the Utina.
Ribault finally reached the fort with a relief expedition in the summer, and assumed command of the settlement.
In the meantime, the Spanish admiral Pedro Menéndez de Avilés had established the colony of St.
Augustine 35 miles to the south, with the express mission to displace the French.
When he arrived, Ribault launched a naval expedition of 200 sailors and 400 soldiers to dislodge the Spanish, but a storm at sea incapacitated them for several days and caused numerous deaths.
On September 20, 1565, Menéndez marched his men overland to Fort Caroline, defended by 200 or 250 people, and killed everyone except for 50 women and children and 26 men who escaped.
The Spanish picked up the survivors of Ribault's fleet, and summarily executed all but 20.
The Spanish took over Fort Caroline, renaming it as San Matteo.
In 1568 the French and Spanish confronted each other again here, when Dominique de Gourgues burned it to the ground.
The Spanish rebuilt the fort, but abandoned it in 1569.
The Spanish next built Fort San Nicolas further upriver to protect the rear flank of St.
Augustine.
"San Nicolas" served as their name for the Jacksonville area, a placename which survives in the neighborhood of St.
Nicholas.
The fort was located on the east side of the St.
Johns, where Bishop Kenny High School now stands.
The fort was abandoned in the late 17th century.
France and Spain were defeated by the British in the French and Indian War.
 During the war the British had defeated the Spanish in Cuba and occupied the island, whereas Florida had hardly seen any fighting.
 As part of the negotiations between the two nations in the aftermath of the war, Spain would cede Florida to Great Britain in exchange for the return of Cuba.
 The British agreed and Florida was ceded to the United Kingdom in 1763.
 The British soon constructed the King's Road connecting St.
Augustine to Georgia.
The road crossed the St.
Johns River at a narrow point, which the Seminole called Wacca Pilatka and the British named the "Cow Ford", both names ostensibly reflecting the fact that cattle were brought across the river there.
 The British divided Florida into the two colonies of British East Florida and British West Florida.
The British government gave land grants to officers and soldiers who had fought in the French and Indian War in order to encourage settlement.
 In order to induce settlers to move to the two new colonies reports of Florida's natural wealth were published in England.
 A large number of British colonists who were "energetic and of good character" moved to Florida, mostly coming from South Carolina, Georgia and England though there was also a group of settlers who came from the colony of Bermuda.
 This would be the first permanent English-speaking population in what is now Duval County, Baker County, St.
Johns County and Nassau County.
 The British built good public roads and introduced the cultivation of sugar cane, indigo and fruits as well the export of lumber.
 As a result of these initiatives northeastern Florida prospered economically in a way it never did under Spanish rule.
 Furthermore, the British governors were directed to call general assemblies as soon as possible in order to make laws for the Floridas and in the meantime they were, with the advice of councils, to establish courts.
 This would be the first introduction of much of the English-derived legal system which Florida still has today including trial-by-jury, habeas corpus and county-based government.
The British gave control of the territory back to Spain in 1783.
Americans of English descent and Americans of Scots-Irish descent began moving into northern Florida from the backwoods of Georgia and South Carolina.
 Though technically not allowed by the Spanish authorities, the Spanish were never able to effectively police the border region and the backwoods settlers from the United States would continue to migrate into Florida unchecked.
 These migrants, mixing with the already present English-speaking settlers who had lived in Florida since the British period, would be the progenitors of the population known as Florida Crackers.
The Spanish also accepted fugitive slaves from the newly-created United States if they accepted Catholic baptism.
Between 1812 and 1814 during the War of 1812 between the US and Britain, the US Navy assisted American settlers in Florida in "The Patriot War", a covert attempt to seize control of Florida from the Spanish.
They began with invasions of Fernandina and Amelia Island.
Spain sold the Florida Territory to the United States in 1821 and, by 1822, Jacksonville's current name had come into use, to honor General Andrew Jackson.
It first appears on a petition sent on June 15, 1822 to U.S.
Secretary of State John Quincy Adams, asking that Jacksonville be named a port of entry.
The city is named for Andrew Jackson, military governor of the Florida Territory and eventual President of the United States.
U.S.
settlers led by Isaiah D.
Hart wrote a charter for a town government, which was approved by the Florida Legislative Council on February 9, 1832.
Remembered as the city's most important founding father, Hart is memorialized with the Isaiah D.
Hart Bridge over the St.
Johns.


Civil War

Even before the outbreak of war, a militia unit was raised in Jacksonville in April 1859.
The unit, called the Jacksonville Light Infantry, would become Company A of the 3rd Florida Infantry Regiment.
The company carried a battle flag bearing the slogan "Let Us Alone" and was commanded by Dr.
Holmes Steele, a former mayor of the city.
During the American Civil War, Jacksonville was a key supply point for hogs and cattle leaving Florida and aiding the Confederate cause.
Throughout most of the war, the US Navy maintained a blockade around Florida's ports, including Jacksonville.
In October 1862 Union forces captured a Confederate battery in the Battle of St.
Johns Bluff and occupied Jacksonville.
Throughout the war Jacksonville changed hands several times, though never with a battle.
On February 20, 1864, Union soldiers from Jacksonville marched inland and confronted the Confederate Army at the Battle of Olustee.
The battle was a devastating loss for the Union and a decisive victory for the Confederacy.
 Soldiers on both sides were veterans of the great battles in the eastern and western theaters of war, but many of them remarked in letters and diaries that they had never experienced such terrible fighting.
The Confederate dead were buried at Oaklawn Cemetery in nearby Lake City.
 The Union losses caused Northern authorities to question the necessity of further Union involvement in the militarily insignificant region of northern Florida.
 On the morning of 22 February, as the Union forces were still retreating to Jacksonville, the 54th Massachusetts was ordered to counter-march back to Ten-Mile Station.
The locomotive of a train carrying wounded Union soldiers had broken down and the wounded were in danger of capture.
When the 54th Massachusetts arrived, the men attached ropes to the engine and cars and manually pulled the train  approximately three miles to Camp Finnegan, where horses were secured to help pull the train.
After that, the train was pulled by both men and horses to Jacksonville for a total distance of ten miles.
It took forty-two hours to pull the train that distance.
The US Transport Maple Leaf was sunk at Jacksonville, April 1, 1864.
The U.S.
Transport General Hunter was sunk in the St.
John's River, April 16, 1864, close to where the Maple Leaf was sunk.
In the fall of 1865, a black enlisted man in the 3rd USCT was hung by his thumbs for stealing from a field kitchen.
The punishment led to a riot and gunfire was exchanged between black enlisted men and their white officers.
The riot was put down and several soldiers were put on trial for mutiny, with 6 of them being executed.
By the end of the war in 1865, a Union commander commented that Jacksonville had become "pathetically dilapidated, a mere skeleton of its former self, a victim of war."


Post Civil War


Winter resort era

Following the Civil War, during Reconstruction and afterward, Jacksonville and nearby St.
Augustine became popular winter resorts for the rich and famous of the Gilded Age.
Visitors arrived by steamboat and (beginning in the 1880s) by railroad, and wintered at dozens of hotels and boarding houses.
The  1888 Subtropical Exposition was held in Jacksonville and attended by President Grover Cleveland, but the Florida-style world's fair did not lead to a lasting boost for tourism in Jacksonville.
The area declined in importance as a resort destination after Henry Flagler extended the Florida East Coast Railroad to the south, reaching Palm Beach in 1894 and the Miami area in 1896.
This drew tourism to the southern Atlantic Coast.


Yellow fever epidemics
Jacksonville's prominence as a winter resort was dealt another blow by major yellow fever epidemics in 1886 and 1888.
During the second one, nearly ten percent of the more than 4,000 victims died, including the city's mayor.
In the absence of scientific knowledge concerning the cause of yellow fever, nearly half (10,000 out of 25,000) of the city's panicked residents fled despite the imposition of quarantines.
Inbound and outbound mail was fumigated in an effort to reduce contagion.
Jacksonville's reputation as a healthful tourist destination suffered.
The African-American population did not appear to catch the disease, leading the panicked population into erroneously believing that the black residents were "carriers" of the Yellow Fever.
In fact, Black people had immunity from catching the disease earlier, as children.


Spanish–American War
During the Spanish–American War, gunrunners helping the Cuban rebels used Jacksonville as the center for smuggling illegal arms and supplies to the island.
Duval County sheriff and future state governor, Napoleon Bonaparte Broward, was one of the many gunrunners operating out of the city.
Author Stephen Crane travelled to Jacksonville to cover the war.


20th century


Great Fire of 1901

On May 3, 1901, downtown Jacksonville was ravaged by the Great Fire—the largest-ever urban fire in the Southeastern United States, which started when hot ash from a shantyhouse's chimney landed on the drying moss at Cleaveland's Fiber Factory.
At half past noon most of the Cleaveland workers were at lunch, but by the time they returned the entire city block was engulfed in flames.
The fire destroyed the business district and rendered 10,000 residents homeless in the course of eight hours.
Florida Governor William S.
Jennings declared a state of martial law in Jacksonville and dispatched several state militia units to help.
Reconstruction started immediately, and the city was returned to civil authority on May 17.
Despite the widespread damage, only seven deaths were reported.
Young architect Henry John Klutho had just returned to New York from a year in Europe when he read about the Jacksonville fire and, seeing a rare opportunity, he headed south.
Klutho and other architects, enamored by the "Prairie Style" of architecture then being popularized by architect Frank Lloyd Wright in Chicago and other Midwestern cities, designed exuberant local buildings with a Florida flair.
While many of Klutho's buildings were demolished by the 1980s, a number of his creations remain, including the St.
James Building from 1911 (a former department store that is now Jacksonville's City Hall) and the Morocco Temple from 1910.
The Klutho Apartments, in Springfield, were recently restored and converted into office space by local charity Fresh Ministries.
Despite the losses of the last several decades, Jacksonville still has one of the largest collections of Prairie Style buildings (particularly residences) outside the Midwest.


Motion picture industry

In the early 20th century, before Hollywood, the motion picture industry was based in Fort Lee, New Jersey#America's first motion picture industry.
In need of a winter headquarters, moviemakers were attracted to Jacksonville due to its warm climate, exotic locations, excellent rail access, and cheaper labor, earning the city the title of "The Winter Film Capital of the World."
In 1908,  New York-based Kalem Studios was the first to open a permanent studio in Jacksonville.
Over the course of the next decade, more than 30 silent film companies established studios in town, including Metro Pictures (later MGM), Edison Studios, Majestic Films, King Bee Film Company, Vim Comedy Company, Norman Studios, Gaumont Studios and the Lubin Manufacturing Company.
In 1914,  Oliver "Babe" Hardy, a comedic actor and Georgia native, began his motion picture career in  Jacksonville.
He starred in over 36 short silent films his first year acting.
With the closing of Lubin in early 1915, Oliver moved to New York then New Jersey to find film jobs.
Acquiring a job with the Vim Company in early 1915, he returned to Jacksonville in the spring of 1917 before relocating to Los Angeles in October 1917.

In 1915, Joseph Engel opened Metro Pictures in Jacksonville.
In 1917,  the first motion picture made in Technicolor and the first feature-length color movie produced in the United States, The Gulf Between, was filmed on location in Jacksonville.
Jacksonville's mostly conservative residents, however, objected to the hallmarks of the early movie industry, such as car chases in the streets, simulated bank robberies and fire alarms in public places, and even the occasional riot.

In 1917, conservative Democrat John W.
Martin was elected mayor on the platform of taming the city's movie industry.
By that time, southern California was emerging as the major movie production center, thanks in large part to the move of film pioneers like William Selig and D.W.
Griffith to the area.
These factors hastened the demise of Jacksonville as a place for film production.
In 1920, Richard Norman, founder of Norman Film Manufacturing Company, a European American, purchased the bankrupt Eagle Film studios, on the Eagle Film City property in Jacksonville’s rural Arlington section.
and created a string of  African American films starring black actors in the vein of Oscar Micheaux and the Lincoln Motion Picture Company.
In contrast to the degrading parts offered in certain white films such as The Birth of a Nation, Norman and his contemporaries sought to create positive stories featuring African Americans in what he termed "splendidly assuming different roles."


"Gateway to Florida"

The 1920s brought significant real estate development and speculation to the city during the great Florida land boom (and bust).
Hordes of train passengers passed through Jacksonville on their way south to the new tourist destinations of South Florida, as most of the passenger trains arriving from the population centers of the North were routed through Jacksonville.
The Riverside Theater, which opened in 1927,
was the first theater in Florida to show talking pictures.
Completion of the Dixie Highway (portions of which became U.S.
1) in the 1920s began to draw significant automobile traffic as well.
An important entry point to the state since the 1870s, Jacksonville now justifiably billed itself as the "Gateway to Florida."


US Navy

A significant part of Jacksonville's growth in the 20th century came from the presence of navy bases in the region.
October 15, 1940, Naval Air Station Jacksonville ("NAS Jax") on the westside became the first navy installation in the city.
This base was a major training center during World War II, with over 20,000 pilots and aircrewmen being trained there.
After the war, the Navy's elite Blue Angels were established at NAS Jax.
Today NAS Jax is the third largest navy installation in the country and employs over 23,000 civilian and active-duty personnel.
In June 1941, land in the westernmost side of Duval County was earmarked for a second naval air facility.
This became NAS Cecil Field, which during the Cold War was designated a Master Jet Base, the only one in the South.
RF-8 Crusaders out of Cecil Field detected missiles in Cuba, precipitating the Cuban Missile Crisis.
In 1993, the Navy decided to close NAS Cecil Field, and this was completed in 1999.
The land once occupied by this installation is now known as the "Cecil Commerce Center" and contains one of the campuses of Florida Community College which now offers civil aeronautics classes.
December 1942 saw the addition of a third naval installation to Jacksonville: Naval Station Mayport at the mouth of the St.
Johns River.
 This port developed through World War II and today is the home port for many types of navy ships, most notably the aircraft carrier USS John F.
Kennedy from 1995 to 26 July 2007, when Big John was towed away, eventually to be mothballed in Philadelphia.
NS Mayport current employs about 14,000 personnel.
Jacksonville is also not far from Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay in St.
Marys, Georgia, which is home to part of the US Navy's nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine (SSBN) fleet.
The naval base became a key training ground in the 1950s and 1960s and as such, the population of the city rose dramatically.
More than half of the residents in Jacksonville had some tie to the naval base, whether it be a relative stationed there, or due to employment opportunities, by 1970, necessitating the opening of an international airport in the area.


Hotel Roosevelt fire

On December 29, 1963, a fire gutted the first couple of stories of the Hotel Roosevelt on Adams Street, killing 22 people, setting a record for the highest one-day death toll in Jacksonville history.
The hotel was later abandoned, with most businesses inside moving to the nearby Hotel George Washington.


Floating nuclear power plants

Offshore Power Systems (OPS) was a 1970 joint venture between Westinghouse Electric Company, who constructed nuclear generating plants, and Newport News Shipbuilding and Drydock, who had recently merged with Tenneco, to create floating nuclear power plants at the Port of Jacksonville.
Construction of the new facility was projected to cost $200 million and create 10,000 new jobs when completed in 1976.

Contracts were signed by Public Service Electric and Gas Company with PSE&G paying for the startup costs for the manufacturing facility.
Westinghouse named Zeke Zechella to be president of OPS in 1972.
OPS obtained 850+ acres (3.4 km2) on Blount Island from the Jacksonville Port Authority (JPA) for $2,000/acre, then installed infrastructure using over 1,000 workers.
A total of $125 million was invested in the property and facility, however; no plants were ever built.


Ax Handle Saturday

Because of its high visibility and patronage, the Hemming Park and surrounding stores were the site of numerous civil rights demonstrations in the 1960s.
Black Sit-ins began on August 13, 1960 when students asked to be served at the segregated lunch counter at Woolworths, Morrison's Cafeteria and other eateries.
They were denied service and kicked, spit at and addressed with racial slurs.
This came to a head on "Ax Handle Saturday", August 27, 1960.
A group of 200 middle aged and older white men (allegedly some were also members of the Ku Klux Klan) gathered in Hemming Park armed with baseball bats and ax handles.
They attacked the protesters conducting sit-ins.
The violence spread, and the white mob started attacking all African-Americans in sight.
Rumors were rampant on both sides that the unrest was spreading around the county (in reality, the violence stayed in relatively the same location, and did not spill over into the mostly-white, upper-class Cedar Hills neighborhood, for example).
A black street gang called the "Boomerangs" attempted to protect the demonstrators.
Police, who had not intervened when the protesters were attacked, now became involved, arresting members of the Boomerangs and other black residents who attempted to stop the beatings.
Nat Glover, who worked in Jacksonville law enforcement for 37 years, including eight years as Sheriff of Jacksonville, recalled stumbling into the riot.
Glover said he ran to the police, expecting them to arrest the thugs, but was told to leave town or risk being killed.
Several whites had joined the black protesters on that day.
Richard Charles Parker, a 25-year-old student attending Florida State University was among them.
White protesters were the object of particular dislike by racists, so when the fracas began, Parker was hustled out of the area for his own protection.
The police had been watching him and arrested him as an instigator, charging him with vagrancy, disorderly conduct and inciting a riot.
 After Parker stated that he was proud to be a member of the NAACP, Judge John Santora sentenced him to 90 days in jail.


Hurricanes
Jacksonville has been largely spared from the impacts of hurricanes.
Hurricane Dora made landfall near St.
Augustine, Florida on September 11, 1964, with winds of 110 mph (175 km/h), becoming the first on record to make landfall in the region.
Despite the storm damage, over 20,000 fans attended a live concert the next day at the Gator Bowl Stadium by the British rock-and-roll band, "The Beatles".
The winds were blowing so hard that Ringo Starr's drum set had to be nailed down to the stage.
Dora was the only storm in recorded history to affect Jacksonville with hurricane-force winds, though the city has been affected by weaker storms as well as hurricanes that lost intensity before reaching the area.
In September 1999, after Hurricane Floyd struck the Bahamas, over one million Floridians were evacuated from coastal areas, many of them from Jacksonville.
Mayor John Delaney announced the mandatory evacuation of the Jacksonville Beaches and other low lying neighborhoods early on September 14; in total, nearly 80,000 Jacksonville residents left their homes.
Ultimately the storm turned northward 125 miles off the coast, causing only minor damage in Jacksonville and the southeastern U.S.
before making landfall in North Carolina.
In September 2017, Jacksonville experienced record flooding from Hurricane Irma.


Consolidation

Through the 1960s Jacksonville, like most other large cities in the US, suffered from the effects of urban sprawl.
To compensate for the loss of population and tax revenue and end waste and corruption, voters elected to consolidate the government of Jacksonville with the government of Duval County.
The move was carried out on October 1, 1968, and Hans Tanzler, elected mayor of Jacksonville the year before, became the first mayor of the consolidated government.
Jacksonville became the largest city in Florida and the 13th largest in the United States, and has a greater land area than any other American city outside Alaska.
All areas of Duval County are considered part of Jacksonville besides the four independent municipalities of Jacksonville Beach, Atlantic Beach, Neptune Beach, and Baldwin, although residents of these towns vote in city elections and are eligible for services provided by Jacksonville.
Claude Yates began the "quiet revolution" with the Yates Manifesto and J.
J.
Daniel was chairman of the Local Government Study Commission.
Lex Hester was Executive Director of the commission and the key architect of Jacksonville's consolidated government, transition coordinator and chief administrative officer following consolidation.


See also

List of people from Jacksonville, Florida
Timeline of Jacksonville, Florida
History of African Americans in Jacksonville


Bibliography

Bartley, Abel A.
Keeping the Faith: Race, Politics, and Social Development in Jacksonville, Florida, 1940–1970.
(2000).
177 pp.
online edition


References


External links
Photographic exhibit on the Great Fire of 1901; presented by the State Archives of Florida.
The Jacksonville Historical Society

Charles de Montmagny
Charles Jacques Huault de Montmagny (French pronunciation: [ʃaʁl də mɔ̃maɲi]; c.
1583 to 1599 – 4 July 1657) was governor of New France from 1636 to 1648.
He was the first person to bear the title of Governor of New France and succeeded Samuel de Champlain, who governed the colony as Lieutenant General of New France.
Montmagny was able to negotiate a peace treaty with the Iroquois at Trois-Rivières in 1645.
Born in Montmagny, Val-d'Oise, to Charles Huault (descended from a noble family headed by Jacques Huault, a counsellor under Henri II of France 1534 to 1580) and Antoinette Du Drac, Huault de Montmagny was educated by the Jesuits in Malta under the Order of the Knights Hospitaller in 1622.
He later joined the navy and then became a member of the Compagnie de la Nouvelle-France, following the invitation of Cardinal de Richelieu in 1632.
His name 'Montmagny' roughly translated into the Iroquoian languages as "Onontio" (Great Mountain), a title which the Iroquois Confederacy used for all subsequent Governors of Quebec.
Late in his life he was commissioned by the Knights Hospitaller to oversee the Hospitaller colonies in the Caribbean.
 His presence there was ineffective, since he was bogged down in power struggles with the sitting governor, Phillippe de Longvilliers de Poincy.
 Montmagny died on Saint Christopher on 4 July 1657.
He became the inspiration of the character Montmagny by Cyrano de Bergerac in his novel L'autre Monde.


Honours
de Montmagny's legacy is found in the province of Quebec:

Montmagny, Quebec (1966) – formerly located in the Montmagny County and now in Montmagny Regional County Municipality since 1982
Montmagny Arena
former provincial districts of Montmagny (1867–1972) and Montmagny-L'Islet (1972–2011)
Montmagny Regional County Municipality are named after him.
former federal ridings of  Bellechasse—Etchemins—Montmagny—L'Islet (1996–2003) and Montmagny—L'Islet—Kamouraska—Rivière-du-Loup (2003-2023) – replaced by Côte-du-Sud—Rivière-du-Loup—Kataskomiq—Témiscouata since 2025.
rue Montmagny are found in Sorel, Quebec, Quebec City, Laval, Quebec, Trois-Riveres, Quebec and Sherbrooke, Quebec
avenue de Montmagny in Montreal
Montmagny Airport and  Hôpital de Montmagny in Cap-Saint-Ignace, Quebec


See also

Laurent Bermen
Chateau St.
Louis
Fort Richelieu


References


External links
Biography at the Dictionary of Canadian Biography Online

Right Away, Great Captain!
Right Away, Great Captain!
is the solo side project of Manchester Orchestra's lead singer, Andy Hull.
Debut album The Bitter End was released on January 14, 2007 via Favorite Gentlemen Recordings.
The follow-up, The Eventually Home, was released on November 11, 2008, also on Hull's label Favorite Gentlemen Recordings.
On February 10, 2010, he announced the third and final installment of his solo project's trilogy, The Church of the Good Thief, which was released on June 12, 2012.
An additional bonus album consisting of B-sides, demos and one-offs, The Lost Sea, was released on July 13, 2012.
The album trilogy chronicles a 17th-century sailor who catches his wife and brother having an affair.
He then sets out to sea instead of confronting the two while the anger slowly builds in him.
The rest of the trilogy tells the tale of the sailor finding the "Great Captain" who is the namesake of the band, trying to cope with the betrayal, becoming addicted to opiates, and eventually killing his brother in the heat of the moment.
Doing a few dates with both supporting his own band Manchester Orchestra and Kevin Devine in 2008 and 2009, Hull did his biggest shows under this project as a support act for his supergroup Bad Books which toured in October 2010, in support of their self-titled debut album.
In 2012, RAGC released a 4xLP boxset which included The Bitter End, The Eventually Home, The Church of the Good Thief, The Lost Sea and handwritten lyrics, with the albums signed by Andy Hull.
It was priced at $60 and sold out in a few days.
After the first boxset sold out, Hull made various references to a repress of the set on Twitter in 2013, in an AMA Manchester Orchestra did on Reddit in 2014, and in another tweet in 2015.
On January 18, 2016 the boxset repress went up for sale with only 1,000 copies available and was sold through the band's Bandcamp page.
A vinyl repress of the trilogy was released in 2022.


Discography
Studio albums
The Bitter End (2007)
The Eventually Home (2008)
The Church of the Good Thief (2012)
Compilation albums
The Lost Sea (2012)
Right Away, Great Captain!
Live at the Knitting Factory (2016)


References

1832 in the United States
Events from the year 1832 in the United States.


Incumbents


Federal government
President: Andrew Jackson (D-Tennessee)
Vice President:
John C.
Calhoun (D-South Carolina) (until December 28)
vacant (starting December 28)
Chief Justice: John Marshall (Virginia)
Speaker of the House of Representatives: Andrew Stevenson (D-Virginia)
Congress: 22nd


Events
February 9 – The city of Jacksonville, Florida receives its town charter from the legislative council of Florida Territory.
March 3 – In Worcester v.
Georgia, the United States Supreme Court holds that Cherokee Indians are entitled to federal protection from the actions of state governments.
March 24 – In Hiram, Ohio a group of men beat, tar and feather Latter Day Saint movement founder Joseph Smith.
April 6 – The Black Hawk War begins.
May 9 – Lafayette College classes begin.
May 21–23 – 1832 Democratic National Convention held in Baltimore.
May 21 – Washington Irving returns to the U.S.
after seventeen years living in Europe.
July 4 – John Neal delivers the first public lecture in the U.S.
to advocate the rights of women.
July 10 – President Andrew Jackson vetoes a bill that would re-charter the Second Bank of the United States.
July 24 – Benjamin Bonneville leads the first wagon train across the Rocky Mountains using the South Pass (Wyoming).
July–August – The 1829–51 cholera pandemic reaches the Northeastern seaboard, beginning with New York City.
August 27 – Black Hawk (Sauk leader) surrenders to the authorities, ending the Black Hawk War.
October 8 – Washington Irving and Henry Leavitt Ellsworth arrive at Fort Gibson, Indian Territory (later Fort Gibson, Oklahoma) in the late morning hours.
They leave the fort on October 10, with a small company of Rangers who escort them to the camp of Captain Jesse Bean who is waiting for them near the Arkansas River.
Thus begins one of the first steps in the United States effort to remove the indigenous peoples of the Americas from their homes on the east coast in what would become known as the "Trail of Tears" some six years later.
October 19 – Alpha Delta Phi fraternity is founded at Hamilton College (New York).
November 2–December 5 – Andrew Jackson defeats Henry Clay in the U.S.
presidential election.
November 14 – Charles Carroll of Carrollton, the last surviving signatory of the Declaration of Independence dies at his home in Maryland at age 95.
November 24 – Ordinance of Nullification is passed.
December 3 – U.S.
presidential election, 1832: Andrew Jackson is re-elected president.
December – Skull and Bones secret society of Yale University established.
December 28 – John C.
Calhoun becomes the first vice president of the United States to resign.


Undated
George Catlin starts to live among the Sioux in the Dakota Territory.
Wills Eye Hospital in Philadelphia funded by a bequest.
William Ticknor co-founds the publishing house that will become Ticknor and Fields, a predecessor of Houghton Mifflin, in Boston, Massachusetts.
John Neal publishes "The Haunted Man," the first work of American fiction to use psychotherapy as a theme.


Ongoing
Nullification Crisis (1832–1833)


Births
January 1 – Charles N.
Felton, U.S.
Senator from California from 1891 to 1893 (died 1914)
January 13 – Horatio Alger Jr., Unitarian minister and author (died 1899)
January 26 – George Shiras Jr., Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States (died 1924)
February 3 – Abram Williams, U.S.
Senator from California from 1886 to 1887 (died 1911)
February 6 – John Brown Gordon, U.S.
Senator from Georgia from 1873 to 1880 and from 1891 to 1897 (died 1904)
February 18 – Nathaniel P.
Hill, U.S.
Senator from Colorado from 1879 to 1885 (died 1900)
March 4 – Samuel Colman, Hudson River school painter (died 1920)
March 10 – Mary Bigelow Ingham, author and educator (died 1923)
April 3 – James Sewall Reed, soldier (died 1864)
April 8 – Howell Edmunds Jackson, politician, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States (died 1895)
April 10 – Alexander McDonald, U.S.
Senator from Arkansas from 1868 to 1871 (died 1903)
April 15 – John Irwin, admiral (died 1901)
April 19 – Lucretia Garfield, First Lady of the United States (died 1918)
April 22 – Julius Sterling Morton, 3rd United States Secretary of Agriculture (died 1902)
June 9 – Martha Waldron Janes, minister, suffragist and columnist
June 10 – Stephen Mosher Wood, politician (died 1920)
June 11
Augustus Hill Garland, U.S.
Senator from Arkansas from 1885 to 1889 (died 1899)
Lucy Pickens, socialite, known during and after her lifetime as the "Queen of the Confederacy" (died 1899)
June 30 – Emily Lucas Blackall, author and philanthropist (died 1892)
July 26 – Joseph P.
Fyffe, admiral (died 1896)
August 2 – Henry Steel Olcott, officer (died 1907)
August 20 – Thaddeus S.
C.
Lowe, aeronaut, scientist and inventor (died 1913)
September 10 – Randall L.
Gibson, U.S.
Senator from Louisiana from 1883 to 1892 (died 1892)
September 25 – William Le Baron Jenney, architect (died 1907)
September 26 – Joanna P.
Moore, Baptist missionary and educator (died 1916)
October 1
Caroline Harrison, wife of President Benjamin Harrison (died 1892)
Henry Clay Work, song composer (died 1884)
October 9 – Elizabeth Akers Allen, poet and journalist (died 1911)
October 10 – Joe Cain, parade organizer for Mardi Gras in Mobile, Alabama (died 1904)
November 7 – Andrew Dickson White, historian, diplomat and co-founder of Cornell University (died 1918)
November 21 – Benjamin Paul Blood, philosopher and poet (died 1919)
November 26 – Mary Edwards Walker, physician (died 1919)
November 29 – Louisa May Alcott, novelist (died 1888)
December 6 – Thaddeus C.
Pound, businessman and politician (died 1914)
Undated – Boston Corbett, Union Army soldier who fatally shoots John Wilkes Booth (died ca.
1894)


Deaths
February 1 – Archibald Murphey, North Carolina politician (born c.
1777)
February 2 – Amos Doolittle, engraver (born 1754)
April 12 – Shadrach Bond, 1st governor of Illinois (born.
1773)
June 10 – Joseph Hiester, politician (born 1752)
November 12 – Henry Eckford, shipbuilder, naval architect, industrial engineer and entrepreneur (born 1775 in Scotland)
November 14 – Charles Carroll, last surviving signer of the Declaration of Independence, U.S.
Senator (born 1737)
December 17 – Robert Charles Sands, writer (born 1799)
December 18 – Philip Freneau, poet and journalist (born 1752)
December 22 – Ishmail Spicer, music teacher, composer and publisher (born 1760)


See also
Timeline of United States history (1820–1859)


References


External links
 Media related to 1832 in the United States at Wikimedia Commons

Disco ball
A disco ball (also known as a mirror ball or glitter ball) is a roughly spherical object that reflects light directed at it in many directions, producing a complex display.
Its surface consists of hundreds or thousands of facets, nearly all of approximately the same shape and size, and each has a mirrored surface.
Usually, it is mounted well above the heads of the people present, suspended from a device that causes it to rotate steadily on a vertical axis, and illuminated by spotlights, so that stationary viewers experience beams of light flashing over them, and see myriad spots of light spinning around the walls of the room.
Miniature glitter balls are sold as novelties and used for several decorative purposes, including dangling from the rear-view mirror of an automobile or Christmas tree ornaments.
Glitter balls may have inspired a homemade version of the sparkleball, the American outsider craft of building decorative light balls out of Christmas lights and plastic cups.


History
What are now usually called "disco balls" were first widely used in nightclubs in the 1920s.
They were patented in 1917.
An early example can be seen in the nightclub sequence of Berlin: Die Sinfonie der Großstadt, a German silent film from 1927.
From the 1960s to the 1980s, these devices were a standard piece of equipment in discothèques, and by the turn of the millennium, the name "disco ball" had grown quite popular.

A Louisville, Kentucky company known as Omega Mirror Products claims to have made 90% of the disco balls used in the United States during the disco craze and remains a supplier.
Disco balls had a resurgence in the 2020s, particularly as home decor.


Popular culture
The 1942 movie Casablanca featured a disco ball in a flashback sequence.
The 1967 movie To Sir, with Love featured a disco ball in the dance scene.
The English rock band Yes used a variant of the disco ball in their 1972 "Close to the Edge" tour.
This was a slowly spinning vertical mirror disk mounted atop a tall ladder, with a single spotlight aimed at it, used for the opening and closing birds/waterfall-sounds sequences of the title song Close to the Edge.
The Grateful Dead featured a disco ball in the band's 1977 concert documentary The Grateful Dead Movie.
The film includes several sequences where glittery reflections from a disco ball fill San Francisco's Winterland Ballroom during a series of 1974 performances.
"A twirling mirror ball overhead also adds some visual flash to the image," notes a reviewer.
U2 also featured a lemon-shaped disco ball on their 1997–1998 PopMart Tour.
The band entered the lemon disco ball at the end of the main set and emerged from the lemon disco ball at the start of their encore.
The band also released promotional disco balls to promote the band's album Pop, the single "Discothèque", and lead singer Bono also sported the alter-ego of "Mirror Ball Man" during their 1992 Zoo TV Tour.
Introducing disco balls to a new concert demographic, the pop-punk band Paramore showcased dozens of spinning disco balls in 2014 as a glittering stage backdrop during the band's 37-city US Monumentour.
The same disco ball backdrop was used that year at the UK Reading and Leeds Festivals, where the band co-headlined.

The UK television series Strictly Come Dancing and its US counterpart Dancing with the Stars award competition winners a "Glitter Ball Trophy".


Design and operation
A mirror ball typically consists of a lightweight spherical core, commonly made of plastic, foam, or metal, which is uniformly covered with hundreds or thousands of small mirrored facets.
These mirrored tiles are usually made of glass or reflective acrylic and are arranged in a tight mosaic to maximise light reflection.
When a focused light source, such as a pinspot or stage spotlight, is directed at the ball, each mirror facet reflects a beam of light, producing a pattern of moving dots that spread across surrounding surfaces.
Most mirror balls are mounted on a rotating motor that slowly turns the sphere, enhancing the dynamic light effect.
Standard rotation speeds range from 0.5 to 3 revolutions per minute, though variable-speed and remote-controlled motors are also available.
The resulting visual effect depends on several factors: the intensity and angle of the light source, the distance between the light and the ball, and the size of the mirrored facets.


Records
English rock band Pink Floyd used a glitter ball on their A Momentary Lapse of Reason Tour of 1987 and The Division Bell Tour of 1994.
The glitter ball used on the former was somewhat larger than normal but nowhere near as large as the glitter ball used on the 1994 tour.
This particular glitter ball is one of the largest in the world: 4.90 metres in diameter, it rises to a height of 213 metres before opening to a width of 7.3 metres, revealing a 12 kilowatt Phoebus HMI lamp.
Both can be seen on the video of each tour, Delicate Sound of Thunder and Pulse, during the song "Comfortably Numb".
American singer-songwriter Madonna has used glitter balls in several of her tours.
During The Girlie Show in 1993, she descended while sitting on one before performing "Express Yourself", and later in 2006, she used a 2-ton glitter ball that was embellished by 2 million dollars' worth of Swarovski crystals, which used a hydraulic system to open like flower petals for her entrance during her Confessions Tour.
Despite claims that the world's largest disco ball can be found on the promenade in Blackpool, United Kingdom, it is smaller than the Guinness World Record holder.
The ball was made for the  2014 Bestival event in England and is 10.33 metres (33 ft 11 in) in diameter.


References

Esso women's hockey nationals
Hockey Canada's Women's National Championship for the Abby Hoffman Cup, sometimes known as the Esso Women's Nationals for sponsorship reasons, was a senior ice hockey championship from 1982 to 2008.
The first edition was hosted in Brantford, Ontario from 1-4 April 1982 (originally known as the Shoppers Drug Mart Women's Nationals).
The competition typically featured nine or ten teams, mostly the provincial champions but also sometimes provincial all-star teams or a local host team.
The winners won the Abby Hoffman Cup with gold medals, the runners up won the Fran Rider Cup with silver medals, and the third-place team won the Maureen McTeer Trophy with bronze medals.
The Abby Hoffman Cup was donated by the Ontario Women's Hockey Association.
From 1982 to 2003, the teams were split into two somewhat even groups for round-robin play before the knockout games and the ranking or medal games.
From 2004 to 2007, the teams were split into two distinct groups from which all five Pool A teams advanced to the knockout phase with only the Pool B winners.
In 2008, the last year for the competition, the teams were again slit into two distinct groups, but only the four Pool A teams played for medals (CWHL and WWHL teams) while the four Pool B teams played for a B title.


History
Since the split between the National Women's Hockey League and the Western Women's Hockey League in 2004, this was the only event in the professional women's hockey calendar that saw teams from the two leagues play against each other.
 Although an agreement between the NWHL and the WWHL was reached in 2006 to merge the two leagues (wherein the latter would be absorbed as a separate division of the former), difficulty in setting up the Nationals alongside an interlocking playoff format prevented the merger from taking place - the Nationals eventually would take place mere days after the WWHL playoffs and before the NWHL playoffs.
With the collapse of the NWHL soon after and the establishment of the Canadian Women's Hockey League in Eastern Canada, the Esso Nationals, which will also serve as a playoff of sorts between the WWHL and CWHL, received a format overhaul in 2008, in which the top two teams from the WWHL (representing British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan) and the top two teams from the CWHL (representing Ontario and Quebec) automatically qualified for the event.
 Teams representing the provinces without teams in either league filled out the remainder of the field, due to Hockey Canada requirements that every province be represented.
 The Abby Hoffman Cup was awarded to both the club pool and the team pool champions.
 Similarly, the Fran Rider Cup and the Maureen McTeer Trophy (the trophies awarded for the silver and bronze medalists at the Esso Nationals) were awarded in both the club and team pool tournaments.
To level the playing field (which in recent years had been dominated by club teams) for 2008, the four club teams played in a separate tournament from the four all-star teams (and thus two championships were awarded at the Esso Nationals), with the intent that the club pool (with the Clarkson Cup as its championship) would be splintered off into its own tournament at some point in the future.
 The 2008 tournament also saw the first American team to qualify, with the Minnesota Whitecaps joining the Calgary Oval X-Treme in representing the WWHL in the club pool.
 The format was the same for both the club and team tournaments: after the four teams played a single round robin pool, the four teams were seeded based on their standings and played a single-elimination tournament for the championship.
This arrangement had lasted for only one year; in 2009, the dispute between Clarkson and the Clarkson Cup's artists was settled, and a new championship, the National Canadian Women's Hockey Championship, was created for the professional teams, under the same format.
 However, this was not without cost as Hockey Canada elected to discontinue the Esso Women's Nationals in favour of the Esso Cup, a new national female midget 'AAA' championship.


Past winners


Game details
On March 22, 1998, Dana Antal scored at 5:31 of a 10-minute overtime period on a pass from Jennifer Botterill as Team Alberta (represented by the Calgary Oval X-Treme) defeated Team Ontario (represented by the Beatrice Aeros) by a 3-2 mark to win the Esso Nationals.
The Calgary Oval X-Treme (Team Alberta) and the Brampton Thunder (Team Ontario) competed in the 2003 Esso Women's National Hockey Championship.
Team Alberta won by a score of 6-3 in front of over 1,100 fans at Saskatchewan Place.
Samantha Holmes scored twice while Colleen Sostorics and Delaney Collins each contributed two assists.
Team Alberta outscored their opponents in the tournament 46 to 10.
With the win, Team Alberta was awarded the Abby Hoffman Cup.


Awards and honors
2006 Top Forward: Jayna Hefford (Team Ontario)
2006 Top Goaltender: Charline Labonté (Team Quebec)
2006 Tournament MVP: Annie Durosiers (Team Quebec)
2007 Tournament MVP (Pool A): Hayley Wickenheiser (Team Alberta)
2007 Top Defender (Pool A): Cheryl Pounder (Team Ontario)
2007 Top goaltender (Pool A): Desirae Clark (Team BC)
2007 Top Forward (Pool A): Gina Kingsbury (Team Alberta)
2007 Tournament MVP (Pool B): Karen Thatcher (Team BC)
2007 Top Defender (Pool B): Melissa Coulombe (Team Manitoba)
2007 Top goaltender (Pool B): Kenzie Waterstreet (Team BC - Host Team)
2007 Top Forward (Pool B): Karen Thatcher (Team BC)
2007 Mickey Walker – Most Sportsmanlike Player – Jennifer Sullivan (PEI)
2007 Most Sportsmanlike Team – New Brunswick


Players of the game
2003 Gold Medal Game, Dana Antal, Oval X-Treme (Team Alberta)
2003 Gold Medal Game, Jayna Hefford, Brampton Thunder (Team Ontario)
2006 Gold Medal Game, Kristie Zamora, Brampton Thunder (Team Ontario)
2006 Gold Medal Game, Charline Labonte, Montreal Axion (Team Quebec) 


See also
Esso Cup


References

Invergloy Platform railway station
Invergloy Platform was a railway station in Inverness-shire, Scotland on the Invergarry and Fort Augustus Railway between 1904 and 1933.


Overview
The station was opened on 1 July 1904 on the Invergarry and Fort Augustus Railway which had opened 12 months previously.
It was a single platform with a waiting shelter and was sometimes known as Invergloy Station.
The station was operated by the Highland Railway from 1904 to 1907, and then by the North British Railway until 1922.
From 1923 it was operated by the London and North Eastern Railway.
It was expanded with two sidings put in for timber traffic during the First World War.
It closed on 1 December 1933.


References


External links
Invergloy Platform station on navigable O.
S.
map
Butt, R.V.J.
(1995).
The Directory of Railway Stations.
Patrick Stephens Ltd.
 ISBN 1-85260-508-1
A.
Jowett (2000).
Jowett's Nationalised Railway Atlas.
Atlantic Publishing.
 ISBN 0-906899-99-0

Armando Dávalos
Armando Renê Dávalos Brites (born 23 January 1957), better known as Armando Dávalos or simply Armando, is a Brazilian former professional footballer and manager who played as a midfielder.


Career
Player born in the city of Ponta Porã, started playing for the local Comercial.
He was taken to 2 de Mayo in Paraguay by his brother, and after standing out in the regional, he ended up getting a chance at Esportiva Guaxupé in Minas Gerais.
He played for a few more clubs until arriving at São Paulo FC, where he made 32 appearances and scored 4 goals.


Managerial career
Armando was the manager of Sportivo 2 de Mayo in the winning campaign the Paraguayan Primera División B Nacional in 2017.
He also coached the club in 2006 and in 2022.


References


External links
Armando at ogol.com.br

Gilles Paradis
Gilles Paradis is a Canadian consultant physician at the Institut national de santé publique du Québec, professor in the Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, and Strathcona Chair in Epidemiology at McGill University in Montreal, Quebec.


Biography
He obtained his Doctor of Medicine at Université de Montréal and subsequently pursued residency training in family medicine at Hôpital du Sacré-Coeur de Montréal and at the Montreal General Hospital within the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC).
He went on to earn a Master of Science in epidemiology and completed further residency training in the specialized field of public health and preventive medicine at McGill University within the MUHC.
He completed a two-year fellowship at Stanford University in the Center for Disease Prevention Research.
His Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada fellowship certification in Public Health and Preventive Medicine was issued in November 1987.
In 1989, he returned to Montreal and began practicing public health, initially at the Direction de santé publique de Montréal, and then from 2005 onwards, at the Institut national de santé publique du Québec.
In 2012, he was appointed Chair of the Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health at McGill University, in addition to becoming to the holder of the Strathcona Chair in Epidemiology.


Research
His research mostly focuses on the epidemiology of chronic cardiovascular diseases amongst children and adolescents.


References

Hesperia viridis
Hesperia viridis, the green skipper, is a species of grass skipper in the butterfly family Hesperiidae.
It is found in North America.
The MONA or Hodges number for Hesperia viridis is 4028.


References


Further reading

Letters to a Young Poet
Letters to a Young Poet (original title, in German: Briefe an einen jungen Dichter) is a collection of ten letters written by the Bohemian-Austrian poet Rainer Maria Rilke (1875–1926) to Franz Xaver Kappus (1883–1966), a 19-year-old officer cadet at the Theresian Military Academy in Wiener Neustadt, between 1903 and 1908.
Rilke, the son of an Austrian army officer, had studied at the academy's lower school at Sankt Pölten in the 1890s.
Kappus corresponded with the popular poet and author from 1902 to 1908 seeking his advice as to the quality of his poetry, and in deciding between a literary career or a career as an officer in the Austro-Hungarian Army.
Kappus compiled and published the letters in 1929—three years after Rilke's death from leukemia.
In the first letter, Rilke respectfully declines to review or criticize Kappus' poetry, advising the younger Kappus that "Nobody can advise you and help you, nobody.
There is only one way.
Go into yourself." Rilke, over the course of the ten letters, proceeds to advise Kappus on how a poet should feel, love, and seek truth in trying to understand and experience the world around him and engage the world of art.
These letters offer insight into the ideas and themes that appear in Rilke's poetry and his working process.
Further, these letters were written during a key period of Rilke's early artistic development after his reputation as a poet began to be established with the publication of parts of Das Stunden-Buch (The Book of Hours) and Das Buch der Bilder (The Book of Images).


Writing and publication


Correspondence with Rilke
In 1929, Franz Xaver Kappus compiled ten letters that he received from Rainer Maria Rilke that were written from 1902 to 1908 and published them under the title Briefe an einen jungen Dichter (Letters to a Young Poet) through Insel Verlag in Leipzig.
Later information revealed that Rilke and Kappus did meet in person.
In an introduction to the collection, Kappus recounts how he came to write to Rainer Maria Rilke.
According to Kappus, in late 1902 while a student at the Theresian Military Academy in Wiener Neustadt in Lower Austria, he was reading Rilke's poetry.
He was approached by the academy's chaplain, Horacek, who noted that Rilke had been a pupil years earlier at the academy's lower school at Sankt Pölten.
Horacek expressed surprise that the former pupil had "become a poet" and described to Kappus the young Rilke as a "thin, pale boy" whose quiet demeanor proved unable to bear the strain of a military education and life.
Rilke did not continue his military education.
At the time that Kappus learned this he was inclined toward writing and was not very keen on the notion of dedicating his life to the military.
Kappus then decided to write to Rilke for advice.
When Kappus wrote his first letter to Rilke he asked for Rilke to provide a critique of his poetry.
Rilke provided the young Kappus very little in criticism or in suggestions for his improvement as a poet.
Instead, Rilke discouraged Kappus from reading criticism and advised him to trust his inner judgment, commenting that "Nobody can advise you and help you.
Nobody.
There is only one way—Go into yourself." Rilke provided advice that inspired Kappus to search broader issues of intimacy and the nature of beauty and art, as well as probing philosophical and existential questions.
The letters address personal issues that Kappus had apparently revealed to Rilke; ranging from atheism, loneliness, and career choices.
The originally published collection does not include Kappus's letters to Rilke, though the original German collection does include one sonnet of Kappus's own that Rilke sent back to him in Rilke's handwriting with the instruction to "Read the lines as if they were unknown to you, and you will feel in your inmost self how very much they are yours." However, in 2017, the letters from Kappus to Rilke were found in the Rilke family archive.
Kappus's letters were published in German in 2019, and an English translation was published in 2020.


Rilke's influence on Kappus

Aside from his role in writing to Rilke and later publishing these letters, Franz Xaver Kappus (1883–1966) is largely forgotten by history.
Kappus was descended from a Banat Swabian (ethnic German) family born in Timișoara, in the Banat region, now divided between Hungary, Serbia and Romania.
Despite the hesitancy he expressed in his letters to Rilke about pursuing a military career, he continued his military studies and served for 15 years as an officer in the Austro-Hungarian Army.
During the course of his life, he worked as a newspaper editor and journalist, writing poems, humorous sketches, short-stories, novels, and adapted several works (including his own) into screenplays for films in the 1930s.
However, Kappus did not achieve lasting fame.


The Letters


The first letter
Written in Paris, France on 17 February 1903 – Rilke writes that criticism fails to "touch a work of art." He urges the reader to eschew others' opinions of his poetry.
Instead, the young poet should look inward and examine what truly motivates him to continue writing.
Rilke expands on the theme of developing a rich inner life and offers an inspiring perspective on the process of creating art.


The second letter
Written in Viareggio, near Pisa, Italy on 5 April 1903 – Rilke describes two focuses for his second letter: the first is irony, which he urges the young poet to be wary of, and in the second section, he recommends the books that "are indispensable to [him]," specifically "the Bible and the books of the great Danish writer, Jens Peter Jacobsen."


The third letter
Written in Viareggio, near Pisa, Italy on 23 April 1903 – Rilke discusses Niels Lyhne and Marie Grubbe by Jens Peter Jacobsen in relation to the nature of art.
"In this there is no measuring with time.
A year doesn’t matter; ten years are nothing.
To be an artist means not to compute or count; it means to ripen as the tree, which does not force its sap, but stands unshaken in the storms of spring with no fear that summer might not follow.
It will come regardless.
But it comes only to those who live as though eternity stretches before them, carefree, silent, and endless.
I learn it daily, learn it with many pains, for which I am grateful: Patience is all!"
In the second section of the letter, Rilke critiques the work of Richard Dehmel: "For him there exists no totally mature and pure world of sex, none that is simply human and not masculine only." Rilke argues that rooting art that deals with love in gender "disfigure[s]" it, and that "there is in [Dehmel's] perception something spiteful, seemingly wild, something temporal, not eternal.
There is something that detracts from his art, and makes it suggestive and questionable."
Yet despite this criticism, Rilke argues that there are elements to be appreciated in Dehmel's work.
Rilke concludes the third letter lamenting that he is too poor to send the young poet copies of his own books.


The fourth letter
Written in Worpswede, near Bremen, Germany on 16 July 1903 – Rilke describes love and sexuality, encouraging the young poet to love questions rather than answers.
He writes that:
"Physical lust is a sensuous experience no different from innocently viewing something, or from the feeling of pure delight when a wonderful ripe fruit fills the tongue.
It is a glorious infinite experience granted us, a gift of knowledge from the world, the fullness and radiance of all knowing.
It is not bad that we welcome it.
What is bad is that almost all misuse and waste it.
They set it out as a lure in dreary places of their lives and use it as a distraction rather than as a focus on great heights."
And he goes on to describe the relationship between spiritual creativity and physical desire and satisfaction.
Rilke also elaborates on the limitations of a gendered world-view introduced in his third letter.
He writes that:
"Perhaps the sexes are more closely related than one would think.
Perhaps the great renewal of the world will consist of this, that man and woman, freed of all confused feelings and desires, shall no longer seek each other as opposites, but simply as members of a family and neighbors, and will unite as human beings, in order to simply, earnestly, patiently, and jointly bear the heavy responsibility of sexuality that has been entrusted to them."
The fourth letter concludes with an affirmation of Mr.
Kappus's choice of career in the military, telling him to "Wait patiently to see if your inner life feels restricted by the conditions of this career."


The fifth letter
Written in Rome, Italy on 29 October 1903 – Rilke opens the letter with complaints about Rome, at first claiming it "exudes a death-like, dreary atmosphere, typical of museums." He finds that the abundance of historical objects preserved throughout the city is stifling to daily life, that they assert a connection to Roman history purely coincidental, for it is "of another era and another kind of life, which is not ours and should not be considered as our own." He describes the tourist attractions as "over-rated."
But then Rilke describes his process of realizing Rome's beauty, telling the young poet that "there is much beauty here because there is much beauty everywhere." Rilke comes to see beauty in the ancient aqueducts, the city gardens, and the Renaissance sculptures and architecture.


The sixth letter
Written in Rome, Italy on 23 December 1903 – Rilke reminds the young poet of the benefits of solitude, telling him:
"To be lonely as one was lonely as a child, while adults were moving about, entangled with things that seemed big and important, because the grownups looked so busy and because one could not understand any of their doings — that must be the goal.
And when you realize one day that their activities are superficial, that their careers are paralyzed and no longer linked with life, then why not look at the world as a child would see it — out of the depths of your own world, out of the breadth of your own aloneness, which is itself work and rank and career?"
Rilke goes on to warn the reader of the pitfalls of social or career ambitions.
He is writing in the days leading up to Christmas, and focuses the end of his letter on the process of finding God.


The seventh letter
Written in Rome, Italy on 14 May 1904 – Rilke focuses this letter on love and relationships, specifically on the necessity of aloneness.
He writes:
"It is true that many young people who do not love rightly, who simply surrender themselves and leave no room for aloneness, experience the depressing feeling of failure."


The eighth letter
Written in Flädie, Sweden on 12 August 1904 – Rilke writes about grief and sadness, telling the young poet to let such "moments of tension" pass like all other moments are destined to.


The ninth letter
Written in Jonsered, Sweden on 4 November 1904 – Feelings and discipline are discussed in brief, though the ninth and tenth letters are Rilke's shortest, with minimal elaboration such themes.


The tenth letter
Written in Paris, France on 26 December 1908 – Short in length, Rilke's tenth and final published letter concludes with a short discussion of art as a way of life.
He expresses skepticism of "half-artistic" careers, and he encourages the young poet to remain strong in his resolve.


See also
Art of Mentoring


References


External links

Rainer Maria Rilke – Letters to a Young Poet – The first letter (full text in: EN FR DE IT ES CH)
The Letters (German): 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.
Online text source

So Insane
"So Insane" is the second promo single from Smash Mouth's 2006 album, Summer Girl.
The promo single contains a radio edit of the song (for US radio) and the album version.
Without a music video, or promotion, the single never charted on Billboard's Top 100; however, it did reach position No.
25 on the US Adult Top 40 chart.
It was made for the film Zoom.


Chart performance


References

Deaerating feed tank
A deaerating feed tank (DFT), often found in steam plants that propel ships, is located after the main condensate pump and before the main feed booster pump.


Purpose
It has these three purposes:

Remove dissolved oxygen (“air”) from the condensate
Pre-heat the feedwater
Provide a storage/surge volume
Based on the relevant theoretical Rankine cycle diagram, there are four main processes, or stages:

Stages 1→2: Water pressure is raised from low to high by one or more pumps.
Stages 2→3: Water is heated to boiling in either a conventional boiler or a nuclear propulsion steam generator
Stages 3→4: Steam is expanded in the steam turbine to turn the ship's propeller and power the ship's turbine generators.
Stages 4→1: Low pressure wet steam leaving the turbine is condensed in the (condenser.
A high vacuum in the condenser improves efficiency.
In the practical implementation of a Rankine cycle, it is common to break the pump process (stages 1→2) into three pumps: (in water flow order: condensate pump, feed booster pump and then feedwater pump).


Details
Dissolved oxygen is removed by injecting auxiliary exhaust steam into the upper portion of the tank (above the feed water level) at roughly the same location (elevation) that the condensate enters the tank.
 The two are put in close physical contact over a large surface area to maximize heat transfer.
 As the condensate is heated, the steam drives off any dissolved gasses.
 Since the steam is injected above the feed water level a steam blanket forms above the water to keep the non-condensable gasses from re-entering the feed water.
 There is a connection to the gland exhaust system on the upper portion of the DFT that withdraws the oxygen and other non-condensable gasses as they are driven from the condensate.
 Removing oxygen minimizes corrosion and improves the vacuum quality.
Liquid water loses its capacity to absorb dissolved water with rising temperatures.
The feed tank temperature is maintained just below boiling.
The steam heats the water in the tank
The water in the tank serves as a surge volume within the steam plant.
The deaerating feed tank's surge volume allows the ship to change "bells" (steam turbine power output) and change the ship's speed without running the feed pump dry or flooding the turbines with liquid water.
 
When the officer in charge on ship's bridge orders an increased bell, the steam turbine power output is demanded, using more steam and requiring an increased  feed rate.
 This draws more water from the condenser, potentially to the point of going dry and starving the boiler or steam generator resulting in a loss of propulsion.
 This is until the water, converted to steam, provides its energy to the turbine and then is condensed in the condenser.
When the bell is decreased, turbine power output is reduced and the feed rate drops.
 Without the DFT's surge volume, less water is drawn from the condenser, the condensate level rises, potentially covering condenser tubes and reducing the ability of the condenser to maintain vacuum.
If the level is allowed to go high enough, vacuum could be lost and/or water could impinge (and damage) the turbine blades as the turbine normally sits directly above the condenser.
The feed tank serves as a surge volume to take this excess condensate and avoid losing vacuum.


References

Lagos Preparatory School
Lagos Preparatory & Secondary School (LPSS) is a private co-educational day school in the affluent Ikoyi suburb of Lagos, Nigeria, and has adopted the UK National Curriculum; it was established in 2002.
 LPSS which was formerly known as LPS, provides Early Years, Primary and Secondary school education for children from 18 months up to age 16+.


Accreditation
In 2010, the school qualified for the Every Child Matters Standards Award.
According to a firm called Educational Consultancy & Management (ECM) Solutions, Lagos Prep was the first international school to qualify for its ECM Standards Award.
The school has aligned itself with standards and curricular requirements of the UK National Curriculum but with an added emphasis on Nigerian history, geography and culture.
As a member of the Independent Association of Preparatory Schools (IAPS), an accredited member of the Council of British International Schools (COBIS) and the Association of International Schools in Africa (AISA), LPS claims to be "currently the most highly accredited British prep school in Africa."


COBIS
The Council of British International Schools (COBIS) recognises Lagos Preparatory School as one of 33 Executive member schools, noting that Lagos Prep "remains the only school in Africa in both IAPS and COBIS." Aside from the British International School in Cairo and the Maadi British International School, also in Cairo, Lagos Prep is the only school in Africa that is COBIS-accredited; the others are in various European countries, Brunei, China, the Middle East and Turkey.


ISI and UK Department for education
In February 2011, following an inspection by the Independent Schools Inspectorate (ISI), the school claims, it became the first British School in Africa to meet the UK Department for Education (DfE)'s current standards for British Overseas Schools.
The DfE does in fact recognise Lagos Preparatory School as one of only 12 overseas schools that satisfy its "standards required for continuing registration as a school in England." Lagos Prep is the only African school that DfE lists; the others are in the Middle East, China, France, Spain, Czech Republic and Malaysia.
The ISI makes available its Integrated Handbook Framework both for the use of inspectors in their reporting and to assist schools in helping them to address deficiencies and to reach the ISI-required standard for accreditation.
The DfE's 2011 school inspection report recommended that Lagos Preparatory School "establish consistent and secure analysis of pupil performance data, to identify rates of progress and ensure that pupils are reaching their maximum potential" and "put in place measures rigorously to evaluate and improve the quality of teaching and learning, particularly in Years 2 to 7."


School details


Staff
The school's executive staff includes the headmaster, 77 faculty and 35 supporting staff.


Location
The school is in Ikoyi, a suburb of Lagos which formerly housed the British colonial administration of Nigeria and which is now affordable only for people extremely wealthy by Nigerian standards, typically Nigerian government and military officers, as well as foreign oil and telecommunications company executives.


Fees
Parents must pay a fee of $9,000 per year plus $270 a year for required school uniforms, swimwear and clothing for physical education.


Charity
In 2004, the Oxford Nursery and Primary School in Ibeju Lekki, Lagos State received a stocked library from the pupils of the Lagos Preparatory School.
Funds had been raised by "taxes" of 100 Naira each (about 60 cents US) paid by the children on days when the school permitted students not to wear the uniforms usually required.


References

Parinui
Parinui is a small Māori community in New Zealand, based around the Mangatiti Stream on the middle reaches of the Whanganui River.
The area, including the neighbouring settlement of Tieke Kāinga, is popular with tourists.
The community has four marae, used as meeting places by local Māori:

Mangapapapa Marae Te Oranga Wairua meeting house, belonging to Ngāti Kaponga / Taumata Māhoe
Onepoto Marae, belonging to Ngāti Paku
Papatupu Marae, belonging to Ngāti Uenuku
Parinui Pā and Kare o Ngā Putiputi o Io meeting house, belonging to Ngāti Rūrū


References

Split (gymnastics)
A split (commonly referred to as splits or the splits) is a physical position in which the legs are in line with each other and extended in opposite directions.
Splits are commonly performed in various athletic activities, including dance, figure skating, gymnastics, contortionism, synchronized swimming, cheerleading, martial arts, hockey goaltender, aerial arts and yoga as exercise, where a front split is named Hanumanasana and a side split is named Samakonasana.
A person who has assumed a split position is said to be "in a split", or "doing the splits", or "doing a split" (this form is especially encountered in the Eastern United States).
When executing a split, the lines defined by the inner thighs of the legs form an angle of approximately 180 degrees.
This large angle significantly stretches, and thus demonstrates excellent flexibility of, the hamstring and iliopsoas muscles.
Consequently, splits are often used as a stretching exercise to warm up and enhance the flexibility of leg muscles.
A split that goes beyond 180° is called an oversplit.


Variations
There are two general forms of splits:

Side splits are executed by extending the legs to the left and right of the torso.
Side splits are called straddle splits (or middle splits) in dance and yoga, and may be referred to as Chinese splits in martial arts.
Other names include box splits and center splits; in yoga the pose is named Samakonasana.
Front splits are executed by extending one leg forward of, and the other leg to the rear of the torso.
In dance, a front split is named according to the leg that is extended forward (e.g., the right leg is extended forward when executing a right split).
In yoga a front split is called Hanumanasana.
Front splits require hyper-extension of the iliofemoral ligament, otherwise the majority of the range of motion must come from the front hip joint.
There are many variations of form and performance of splits, including:

Oversplit, in which the angle between the legs exceeds 180 degrees.
Suspended split, in which the body is static and supported only by the feet.
Split leap or split jump is a split that is executed after leaping or jumping, respectively, while still in the air.
In figure skating, split jumps are sometimes called Russian jumps.
They can be done as an exercise.
Standing split or vertical split, in which the leg lines are oriented vertically either to the side or to the front.
This can also be an oversplit and a front oversplit with the back arched backwards.
Twisting split is performed by transitioning from front split to side split, and then to the opposite front split.
Martial arts split is a front split in which the back leg is rotated so the inside edge of the foot rests on the ground.
It is more commonly named a "half split".


Gallery


Problems
A common problem encountered during a side split is pain in the hip joints.
Usually, the reason for this is that the split is being performed improperly (the pelvis may need to be tilted forward).
Another common problem encountered during splits (both front and side) is pain in the knees.


Popular culture
Many people lack the flexibility required to execute a split and thus regard splits to be uncomfortable or even painful.
Because of this widespread view, splits appear in slapstick comedy, schadenfreude, and other forms of entertainment.
Actor Jean-Claude Van Damme performed a split between two moving trucks in a Volvo advertisement titled The Epic Split.


See also
Stretching
Butterfly Pose


References


External links
 Media related to Splits at Wikimedia Commons

Tenvi
Tenvi (Korean: 텐비) is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game released in 2008, in the same vein as MapleStory in that it was also side-scrolling and 2D, but it included many new features.
The main differences are enhanced character sprites and the addition of a "Guardian" which followed your character around.
On July 24, 2012, Tenvi was shut down, but was reopened as TenviXtreme under TooniLand on November 1, 2012.
TooniLand has terminated services as of August 6, 2013.


Gameplay
Like most MMORPGs, game play centers on venturing into dungeons and combating monsters in real-time.
The players combat monsters and complete quests, in the process acquiring in-game currency, experience points (EXP), and various items.
Players can kill monsters and complete quests alone, or they can form a party of up to 4 people.


Characters
The game features 3 different races (each come in male or female), which can take up arms with different guardians.
Here is a summary of the races:
The Guardians bring some unique features to the game:

The characters can “become one” with their guardian.
The Andras rides on its robot, the Talli transforms into its hero, and the Silva rides on its dragon.
At level 10, the player is then asked to go talk to an NPC (NonPlayer Character) that gives the player a job enhancement.
This gives you a two new skills (one passive, one active) which 'level up', or enhance, on their own for every two levels you gain.
Both the pilot and guardian can equip different equipments which change their respective appearances
At level 20 the player will be automatically given the ability to fly.
However, there are some places where the player can not fly, such places as in party quests and jump quests.
Race : Andras The Andras race most closely resembles humans.
They specialize in advanced technology, so for that reason their guardian is a robot.
Their robot wields swords, guns, and hammers.
This race has more health than the others.
Damage is based on "STR".
Race : Talli The Talli race looks very much like elves in most games.
They have white skin and pointed ears.
They actually transform into their guardian which is a kind of dark hero.
Their skills revolve around status effecting magic and damaging their enemies.
Can use knuckle for long range(add int and wisdom for more power) and Daggers for Close range(Add str and agility for more power)
Race : Silva The Silva race has brown skin and horns.
Their guardian is a tamed Dragon.
They are high in mp and use magic to fight.


External links


Official game websites
Tenvi International Portal - Official Tenvi website (No longer in service).
Tenvi Korean site - Tenvi Korea (Requires Internet Explorer) (As of July 24, 2012, Pmang has terminated service).
Tenvi Japanese site - Tenvi Japan (As of March 31, 2010, Nexon Japan has terminated service).
Tenvi Chinese site - Tenvi China (As of May 31, 2010, Tiancity (Nexon China) has terminated service.
However, this website still function as an instruction for players who want to join other servers till 2019).
Tenvi Hong Kong site - Tenvi Hong Kong (As of July 26, 2013, Pmang has terminated service).
TenviXtreme Korean site - TenviXtreme Korea (As of August 6, 2013, TooniLand has terminated service).


References

Stolen Moments (Mark Murphy album)
Stolen Moments is a 1978 studio album by Mark Murphy.
Stolen Moments is the 16th album by American jazz vocalist Mark Murphy.
It was recorded when Murphy was 46 years old and released by the Muse Records label in the United States in 1978.
The recording is noted for the title tune and was one of Murphy's more successful releases.
Murphy contributes the lyrics to Oliver Nelson's "Stolen Moments" which became a signature tune for Murphy.
Richie Cole is featured on alto saxophone.


Background
The instrumental "Stolen Moments" from The Blues and the Abstract Truth (1961) by Oliver Nelson, one of the best selling jazz albums, was a successful jazz standard by the time Murphy recorded his version.
Author Ted Gioia calls the tune "a querulous hard-bop chart that...sounds almost painfully sophisticated".
Murphy told John Watson in an interview that when he first arrived in the UK in 1964, the Oliver Nelson record was getting a lot of play and the song "Stolen Moments" stuck with him.
He was inspired to write the lyrics.
He said, "I like what the lyrics say about two people snatching time to be together, not giving a damn about what the rest of the world says.’’ He sang the song at Ronnie Scott's Jazz Club.
He also sang it in tour in Europe.
Then he put it away for about 10 years.
Peter Jones recounts in his biography,This is Hip: The Life of Mark Murphy, that in the late 1970s Murphy was looking through his charts when he re-discovered the lyrics for "Stolen Moments".
Murphy said, "I started to do it at the clubs, and the kids liked it, and were always asking, 'Can you do that "Stolen Moments" again'?" So Murphy got the idea to do a big band album.
He and Joe Fields, from Muse, enlisted Mitch Farber to do the arrangements and hire the musicians.
Up until two days before the recording session Murphy had intended the centerpiece of the album to be Joe Zawinul's "Birdland".
But permission to record the song with Murphy's own lyrics was denied.
The tune would be featured on The Manhattan Transfer's 1979 release Extensions with lyrics by Jon Hendricks, which would win the 1981 Grammy Award for Best Jazz Fusion Performance.
Incidentally, Richie Cole appears on the Manhattan Transfer's album.
Murphy's recording of "Stolen Moments" received a lot of airplay in the US and became a favorite in his live performances.
It became a signature tune for Murphy.
Years later, in 1995, the Canadian dance company Decidedly Jazz Danceworks produced a 1940s detective movie spoof in dance entitled "Stolen Moments" which was built around Murphy's music.
Artistic director Vicki Adams Willis and Michèle Moss choreographed dance to the song and others from Murphy's repertoire as part of a show in Calgary that featured Murphy narrating and vocalizing in a trench coat in the second act.
"I guess there's some kind of dance connection in my singing,'' Murphy said, "because I was discovered by Sammy Davis Jr., one of the world's greatest tap dancers''.
Murphy's first recording of the song was for Dutch radio in 1970 and it also appears on North Sea Jazz Sessions, Volume 5, a collection of 1970s recordings with the Louis Vandyke Trio released in 1992.
An extended 13 minute version of "Stolen Moments" with two scat solos is included on the live set Just Jazz from 1993 with the Karlheinz Miklin Quartet from a concert in Graz, Austria.
Three versions of the song are also prominently featured later in Murphy's career on his album Love is What Stays with Till Brönner in 2007.


Recording
Mitch Farber did the arrangements and brought in the session musicians.
He worked closely with Murphy, saying, "He knows precisely what he wants to hear and what the charts must do.’’ Murphy did the vocal arrangements himself.
Richie Cole is featured extensively on alto saxophone.
They had been performing together in San Francisco jazz clubs.
Cole would have a close association with Murphy, appearing on Satisfaction Guaranteed (Muse, 1980) and Bop for Kerouac (Muse, 1981).
Cole's tune "D.C.
Farewell" is also included on Stolen Moments.
Vince Lateano is on drums and would later appear on Murphy's September Ballads in 1988.
In the liner notes Murphy says, ‘‘I’m always a time singer.
I bounce off the time values...I must have a wonderful drummer who agrees with me on that time conception.
That’s what generates my motors!’’ The bass players are Chuck Metcalf and Paul Breslin.
Jack Gobbetti is on percussion, and he makes a later appearance with Murphy on the 2017 HighNote release Wild and Free: Live at the Keystone Korner from a 1980 concert.
The remainder of the band includes Smith Dobson on piano, Jim Nichols on guitar, Mark Levine on trombone, and Warren Gale on trumpet.
Murphy records "Waters of March" by Antônio Carlos Jobim on this release and his version is considered definitive by some critics.
Will Friedwald credits Murphy as the earliest American jazz singer to sing it, saying, "His treatment of "Waters" has an urgency, a dynamism not heard in those of other singers, North or South American," and "The Waters of March" might as well be "The Waters of Mark".
Murphy records Annie Ross' vocalese lyrics to Art Farmer's "Farmer's Market".
Peter Jones says that though Ross "wrote the bonkers" lyrics it was Mark Murphy who was "the one who really nailed the vocal, rendering Ross's tongue-twisters effortlessly despite the suicidal tempo".
Though Murphy had previously recorded the tune, this was its first release.
Jones says, "His extraordinary verbal facility is on show in this tricky all-vocal/no solos Art Farmer/Annie Ross vocalese number, its big range requiring flips into falsetto".
The ballad "Again" was sung by Ida Lupino in the 1948 film Road House, a favorite of Murphy.
He performed it often live during this period of his career.
Several of Michael Franks' tunes were recorded by Murphy, here he includes "Don't be Blue".
Herbie Hancock's "Sly" from his 1973 album Head Hunters is included.
‘‘I like Sly.
It’s a rock thing and yet keeps the line in the Lp in all these lyrics; it gives a kaleidoscope of my interests.
I’m pleased with my words for Herbie Hancock’s music,’’ Murphy explained in the liner notes.
"Smith plays the lines and Jim Nichols plays his butt off underneath.
His playing here is worth the price of the record!
Smith plays great through the whole thing.
In fact, everyone does.
I was turned on to it all”.

"We'll Be Together Again" is a ballad Murphy had success with in his live performances.
‘‘I use a 12/8 feel on the drums on the ballads, allowing me to do it incredibly slow.
Yet it doesn’t drag.
You completely go with the word ‘slow’ or you go with the word ‘fast’.
There is nothing in between—there isn't kind of slow or kind of fast.
Hey, just listen to the words.
.
.
it's all there.’’ "Like a Lover (O Cantador)" is a ballad that caught Murphy's attention after hearing Flora Purim sing it.
Murphy had an affinity for Brazilian jazz music, often including Brazilian songs on his albums and often sung in Portuguese.
He would devote two complete albums to the music, Brazil Song (Cancões Do Brasil) (1983, Muse) and Night Mood: The Music of Ivan Lins (1987, Milestone).


Reception
The Rolling Stone Jazz & Blues Album Guide assigns the album 4 stars (meaning, excellent: Four-star albums represent peak performances in an artist's career.
Generally speaking, albums that are granted four or more stars constitute the best introductions to an artist's work for listeners who are curious).
The Virgin Encyclopedia of Popular Music gives the album 3 stars (meaning, good, by the artist's usual standards and therefore recommended.)
The AllMusic guide assigns 4 stars.
Scott Yanow writes, "One of singer Mark Murphy's most famous records, this album finds him at the peak of his powers.
This version of the title cut is considered a classic...
Essential music".
He singles out "Farmer's Market," Jobim's "Waters of March" and "Like a Lover".
In his own book The Jazz Singers: The Ultimate Guide, Yanow lists the album as one of the best individual Muse sets, and writes of Murphy, "A brilliant vocal innovator, Mark Murphy can turn a song inside out in his improvisations, jumping between falsetto and low bass notes, or he can treat a ballad with real sensitivity.
Based in the bebop tradition, Murphy (like Betty Carter) came up with his own individual way of extending the music.
He has also been a highly influential vocal teacher and a lyricist who has written words to the songs".
Musichound Jazz: The Essential Album Guide assigns 4.5 bones (that is, four stars).
Peter Reilly reviewing Stolen Moments for Stereo Review (June 1979) said the album "is one of the freshest, most imaginative, and most expertly entertaining albums of the year".
He wrote about Murphy, "No matter what the material, Murphy has the sure touch of a man who knows instinctively what artistic results he wants to achieve".
Reilly credits the supporting musicians, "in particular Richie Cole, whose alto sax is almost Murphy's co-star here".
Murphy biographer Peter Jones includes the album in his list of top 10 essential Mark Murphy albums.
He also listed "Farmer's Market" (track 3) as part of his article10 tracks by Mark Murphy I Can’t Do Without… in the London Jazz News series "10 Tracks I Can't Do Without".


Track listing
"Stolen Moments" (Oliver Nelson, Mark Murphy) – 5:47
"Again" (Lionel Newman, Dorcas Cochran) – 3:31
"Farmer's Market" (Art Farmer, Annie Ross) – 2:54
"D.C.
Farewell" (Richie Cole) – 2:59
"Waters of March" (Antônio Carlos Jobim) – 3:45
"Sly" (Herbert J.
Hancock, Murphy) – 4:15
"We'll Be Together Again" (Carl T.
Fischer, Frankie Laine) – 3:40
"Don't be Blue" (Michael Franks, John Guerin) – 3:39
"Like a Lover (O Cantador)" (Dori Caymmi, Nelson Motta) – 5:39


Personnel
Performance
Mark Murphy – vocals
Mitch Farber – arranger
Chuck Metcalf – bass (tracks 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9)
Paul Breslin – bass (tracks 2, 4, 7)
Vince Lateano – drums
Smith Dobson – piano
Richie Cole – alto saxophone
Jim Nichols – guitar
Jack Gobbetti – percussion
Mark Levine – trombone
Warren Gale – trumpet

Production
Bob Enochs – engineer, recorded at Filmways / Wally Heider Studio, San Francisco June 1, 1978
Elvin Campbell – engineer, mixer, mixed at CI Recording, New York City
Mitch Farber – producer
Clarence Eastmond – cover photography
Ron Warwell – cover design
Lupe De Leon – production coordinator
Herb Wong – liner notes


References


External links
Stolen Moments at MusicBrainz (release group)
Stolen Moments at Discogs (master release)
Stolen Moments at AllMusic (release)
Stolen Moments at Internet Archive
Stolen Moments at MusicHound Jazz at Internet Archive
Mark Murphy in The Penguin Guide to Jazz at Internet Archive
Mark Murphy in The Rolling Stone Jazz & Blues Album Guide at Internet Archive

Stations of the Resurrection
The Stations of the Resurrection, also known by the Latin name Via Lucis (Way of Light), are a form of Christian devotion, encouraging meditation upon the Resurrection of Jesus Christ and some of the Resurrection appearances and other episodes recorded in the New Testament.
The term may also be used as a name for a series of pictures or sculptures representing the various episodes, although these are nowhere near as common as those for the Stations of the Cross, depicting the stages of the Passion of Jesus.
 The concept was devised in 1988.


 
The Stations of the Resurrection complement the Stations of the Cross or Via Crucis (the term Via Lucis is intentionally reminiscent of this), a traditional Catholic devotion commemorating the Passion of Jesus.
Unlike the traditional form of the Stations of the Cross—though in common with the revised form of that devotion introduced by Pope John Paul II on Good Friday 1991—all the Stations of the Resurrection are based on scripturally-recorded incidents contained in the four Gospels and the Acts of the Apostles.
As with the Stations of the Cross, the devotion takes no fixed form, but typically includes for each Station a reading from Scripture, a short meditation, contemplation, and a prayer.
Where a series of pictures is used to aid the devotion, it takes the form of a procession, with movement from one Station to the next sometimes being accompanied by the singing of one or more verses of a hymn.


History
In the traditional scheme of the Stations of the Cross, the final Station is the burial of Jesus.
Though this constitutes a logical conclusion to the Via Crucis, it has been increasingly regarded as unsatisfactory as an end-point to meditation upon the Paschal mystery, which according to Christian doctrine culminates in, and is incomplete without, the Resurrection (see, for example, 1 Corinthians 15.17–20).
For this reason a fifteenth Station, representing the Resurrection, is sometimes added to the Stations of the Cross.
Even this practice has, however, been subject to criticism as insufficiently representing the two-fold dynamic of the Paschal mystery: the suffering and death of Jesus on the one hand, and on the other his Resurrection and glorification.
In the summer of 1988, Father Sabino Palumbieri, Professor of Anthropology at the Salesian University in Rome, proposed the creation of a new set of stations, centred upon the Resurrection and the events following from it, so as to emphasise the positive, hopeful aspect of the Christian story which, though not absent from the Stations of the Cross, is obscured by their emphasis upon suffering.
The first major public celebration of this devotion was in 1990, after which it gained greater currency.
In December 2001, the Holy See promulgated a Directory on Popular Piety and the Liturgy, which commended the Via Lucis as follows:

A pious exercise called the Via Lucis has developed and spread to many regions in recent years.
Following the model of the Via Crucis, the faithful process while meditating on the various appearances of Jesus – from his Resurrection to his Ascension – in which he showed his glory to the disciples who awaited the coming of the Holy Spirit (cf.
John 14, 26; 16, 13-15; Lk 24, 49), strengthened their faith, brought to completion his teaching on the Kingdom and more closely defined the sacramental and hierarchical structure of the Church.

Through the Via Lucis, the faithful recall the central event of the faith – the resurrection of Christ – and their discipleship in virtue of Baptism, the paschal sacrament by which they have passed from the darkness of sin to the bright radiance of the light of grace (cf.
Col 1, 13; Eph 5, 8).

For centuries the Via Crucis involved the faithful in the first moment of the Easter event, namely the Passion, and helped to fix its most important aspects in their consciousness.
Analogously, the Via Lucis, when celebrated in fidelity to the Gospel text, can effectively convey a living understanding to the faithful of the second moment of the Paschal event, namely the Lord's Resurrection.

The Via Lucis is potentially an excellent pedagogy of the faith, since "per crucem ad lucem" [through the Cross (one comes) to the light].
Using the metaphor of a journey, the Via Lucis moves from the experience of suffering, which in God's plan is part of life, to the hope of arriving at man's true end: liberation, joy and peace which are essentially paschal values.

The Via Lucis is a potential stimulus for the restoration of a "culture of life" which is open to the hope and certitude offered by faith, in a society often characterized by a "culture of death", despair and nihilism.
[1]


List of Stations
As of 2007 there is no universally-agreed list of Stations of the Resurrection, nor have any Church authorities sought to impose a definitive list, and as a result some churches have commissioned sets of sculptures for the Stations according to their own distinctive scheme which may not be followed elsewhere.
(This is similar to the history of the Stations of the Cross, which attained their normative form only after many centuries of widely varying local practice.) As to the number of Stations, however, there is general agreement that in order to emphasise the complementarity between the Stations of the Cross and the Stations of the Resurrection there should be fourteen Stations of the Resurrection, as is traditionally the case with the Stations of the Cross.
In spite of continuing local variability, there appears nevertheless to be an increasing convergence upon the following as a recognised list of Stations of the Resurrection:

Jesus is raised from the dead
The finding of the empty tomb
Mary Magdalene meets the risen Jesus
Jesus appears on the road to Emmaus
Jesus is known in the breaking of bread
Jesus appears to the disciples in Jerusalem
Jesus gives the disciples his peace and the power to forgive sins
Jesus strengthens the faith of Thomas
Jesus appears by the Sea of Tiberias
Jesus forgives Peter and commands him to feed his sheep
Jesus commissions the disciples upon the mountain
The Ascension of Jesus
Mary and the disciples wait in prayer
The Holy Spirit descends at Pentecost
Other sources, however, including some recent ones, replace some of these Stations with others, such as:

The earthquake
The angel appears to the women
Jesus meets the women
Jesus meets his mother
Mary Magdalene proclaims the Resurrection to the disciples
Jesus and the beloved disciple
Jesus appears to over five hundred at once
Jesus appears to Saul


The stations in Dunaszentmiklós


References
Stations of the Resurrection, Raymond Chapman, Canterbury Press, 1998, 0853112119
Common Worship: Times and Seasons, Church House Publishing, 2006, 071512112X
Stations of the Light: Renewing the Ancient Christian Practice of the Via Lucis as a Scriptural Tool for Today, Mary Ford-Grabowsky, Image Book, Doubleday, 2005, 0385511655

United States Naval Forces Europe Band
The United States Naval Forces Europe Band (NAVEUR Band) is the musical component of the United States Naval Forces Europe - Naval Forces Africa, a subordinate command of the United States European Command and United States Africa Command.
It acts as the de facto American musical unit for Europe.
As a United States Navy band, it is part of the Navy Music Program.
Currently stationed in at Naval Support Activity in Naples, Italy, it operates under the direct control and supervision of the Commander of NAVEUR.


History
Naval music has had a long history in North America as well as Europe that dates back to the 1950s.
The current NAVEUR Band traces back to two separate naval bands in the continent, the Allied Forces Southern Europe Band (CINCSOUTH Band) and the Sixth Fleet Band, both operating from Naples, Italy.


CINCSOUTH Band
The CINCSOUTH Band was formed in the 1950s in London from a small contingent of naval musicians who served under the command of Naval Forces Eastern Atlantic.
Later in the decade, the band was relocated to Italy and permanently stationed there.
In 1974, the CINCSOUTH Band was expanded to included military musicians from countries such as Greece and Turkey to better reflect the diversity of NATO.
In 1997 and 2002 respectively, it was expanded further to include musicians from the United States Marine Corps and the Corps of Royal Marines.
In 2004, the band was redesignated as the Allied Forces Band Naples.


Sixth Fleet Band
Until 1958, the newly established Sixth Fleet never maintained a unit band and constantly carried various naval bands from the U.S.
In the Spring of that year, the USS Des Moines established a unit band which would be based at Villefranche-sur-Mer, France.
Following the withdrawal of France from the military command of NATO in 1967, the band changed its permanent base to Gaeta in central Italy.
The band continued to serve on board ships of the Sixth Fleet until the early 1970s, when it moved San Pietro a Patierno, a suburb of Naples.


Merger
In 2004, the Sixth Fleet was merged into the staff of Commander of NAVEUR, effectively making the two bands operate under the same command structure.
In May 2006, Admiral Henry G.
Ulrich III, requested that the two bands are combined to create a singular band that would represent the entire naval command.
The request was 
approved the following month with a layout of the size, mission and jurisdiction being established.
As a result of a restructuring of Fleet Band Activities (FBA) in 2012, the NAVEUR was reduced to 52 members (50 enlisted musicians and two officers).


Notable performances
1972 – Cultural Olympics in Munich, Germany
2009 – Bulgarian Armed Forces Day in Sofia, Bulgaria
2010 – Moscow Victory Day Parade commemorating the 65th anniversary of the German surrender in World War II
2016 – Utah Beach Memorial Ceremony
2017 – Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo
2018 – Funeral service for sailor Julius Pieper at the Normandy American Cemetery
2019 – Magdeburg Musikparade


Mission
The 50 members of the NAVEUR Band serve the mission of supporting NAVEUR and the personnel of the Sixth Fleet at official military ceremonies such as ship arrivals and departures, change of command ceremonies, and official receptions.
It also serves to enhance the esprit de corps of all United States Naval personnel and naval personnel of allied countries on the European mainland.
Like the bands of the other European commands in the Army and Air Force, the NAVEUR Band is involved in improving United States–European Union relations, often acting as a symbolic ambassador for the United States.
The repertoire of the band is very diverse, having been known to cover all types of music.
Other than the significant protocol music that the band performs (ruffles and flourishes, Hands Across the Sea, Admirals March and Anchors Aweigh being common pieces), the band also has been known to perform to American and European classical music, as well as jazz from the two regions.
country rock and swing music are also notable examples of the band's musical diversity.
In its travels, the band has performed throughout the continent, stopping in countries such as Iceland, Croatia, Spain, Bulgaria and the United Kingdom.
It also travels outside Europe and performs in African countries such as Djibouti and South Africa.
In all, the band reaches a combined audience of more than 60 million people spanning the two continents.


Composition
Uniquely, the NAVEUR Band is composed of both active duty Navy and United States Marine Corps (USMC) musicians, alongside by foreign musicians from the European countries such as the United Kingdom and Italian services such as the Carabinieri to make the band serve also as a musical support unit for all events involving the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).
These musicians are divided into different performing units, each of which serve to fulfill a specific ceremony at any request.
The following is a list of ensembles in the NAVEUR Band:

Wind Ensemble (50 musicians)
Ceremonial Band (18–50 musicians)
Marching Band (22–50 musicians)
Brass Quintet (5 musicians)
Woodwind Quintet (5 musicians)
Big Band (6–8 musicians)
Jazz Ensemble (18–22 musicians)
Pop Music Ensemble (18–22 musicians)
Rock Band (7 musicians)
Protocol Combo (3–6 musicians)
The band also maintains the following solo roles:

Bugler
Vocalist
Pianist
The marching band and the ceremonial band are the flagship units of the NAVEUR Band, supporting military ceremonies by leading the formation in parades and rendering honors (the former is done by the marching band).


Gallery


See also
United States military bands
United States Air Forces in Europe Band
United States Army Europe Band and Chorus
U.S.
Armed Forces School of Music
U.S.
Navy Steel Band
United States Naval Academy Band


References


External links
 Media related to United States Naval Forces Europe Band at Wikimedia Commons 

Official Website
U.S.
Naval Forces Europe Band Prepares for Edinburgh 2017

Wallis–Zieff–Goldblatt syndrome
Wallis–Zieff–Goldblatt syndrome is a rare condition characterized by inherited skeletal disorders manifested mainly as rhizomelic short stature and lateral clavicular defects.
It is also known as cleidorhizomelic syndrome.


Presentation
An initial clinical report of this syndrome describes a 6-month-old boy with rhizomelic shortening, particularly in the arms, and protuberances over the lateral aspects of the clavicles.
On radiographs the lateral third of the clavicles had a bifid appearance resulting from an abnormal process or protuberance arising from the fusion center.
His 22-year-old mother also had a height of 142 cm with an arm span of 136 cm and rhizomelic shortness of the limbs, maximal in the arms, and abnormalities of the acromioclavicular joints.
Both the mother and the son had marked bilateral clinodactyly of the fifth fingers associated with hypoplastic middle phalanx.


Diagnosis


References


External links

Nasrabad, Bardaskan
Nasrabad (Persian: نصراباد, also Romanized as Naşrābād) is a village in Jolgeh Rural District Rural District, Shahrabad District, Bardaskan County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran.
At the 2006 census, its population was 223, in 55 families.


References

Abdelouahed Chakhsi
Abdelouahed Chakhsi (born 1 October 1986) is a Moroccan professional footballer currently playing for Moghreb Tétouan.


Career
In early February 2012, Chakhsi made the move to Europe, transferring from Moroccan club KAC Kénitra to Swiss side Lausanne-Sport.
He made his debut on 19 February 2012 against Luzern in a Swiss Super League match that ended in a 0–0 draw.


References


External links
Abdelouahed Chakhsi at WorldFootball.net
Abdelouahed Chakhsi at Soccerway

MetroLyrics
MetroLyrics was a website dedicated to song lyrics.
 It was founded in December 2002, and its database contained over one million songs by over 16,000 artists.
The site abruptly went offline in late June 2021, and its webmasters have never commented on its closing.



History
In 2008, MetroLyrics was the first lyrics-dedicated site to license Gracenote Inc.'s lyrics catalogue.
Through its licensing model, copyright holders of lyrics accrued royalty revenue when their work was displayed on MetroLyrics.com, which MetroLyrics recouped by collecting money from banner advertisements on its site.
Royalties were paid on all displayed lyrics and were handled through Gracenote.
In January 2013, LyricFind acquired Gracenote's lyrics licensing business, merging it in with their own.
MetroLyrics' licensing model was distinct, as many lyrics websites offer content that is unlicensed and possibly copyright infringing.
Unlike other lyric websites, MetroLyrics placed a warning on songs containing explicit lyrics.

MetroLyrics was acquired by CBS Interactive in October 2011.
Red Ventures acquired the CNET Media Group, including MetroLyrics, from CBS Interactive in 2020.


References


External links
Official website

Capparis zoharyi
Capparis zoharyi is a perennial, deciduous species of caper.


Description
It differs from Capparis spinosa mainly because of its upright habit, reaching up to two meters in height.
In spring it resprouts from the branches, not from the stock as does C.
spinosa, so it ends up developing a trunk that can become quite thick.
Its leaves are rounded and scotate and its fruit is elongated with yellow pulp.
It is often hybridized with C.
spinosa.
It is a winter deciduous species.
The first shoots appear in mid-March.
It appears in bloom during the summer (mainly in June), and the first fruits appear in July.
At the end of September it loses its leaves.


Habitat and distribution

This species grows on slopes, embankments, building walls and roadsides.
It is distributed occasionally in some areas of Spain, Morocco, Algeria, the Middle East, Turkey and the island of Crete.
In Spain the species is exclusive of the mountains of Cartagena, especially in the mining area of Cartagena-La Union, where it develops in the environment of abandoned mining facilities.
It can also be found in the surroundings of the port of the city itself.


Conservation status
In Spain it is listed as endangered according to the Red List of endangered vascular flora (2008).
Globally the species is not evaluated (NE).
From the legal point of view, in Spain the species does not have any type of protection, although some of its populations are included within the regional park of Calblanque, Monte de las Cenizas and Peña del Águila, or are in the surroundings of protected mining buildings, such as the entire mining area, with the category of Bien de Interés Cultural (BIC).


Taxonomy
Capparis zoharyi was described by Inocencio, D.
Rivera, Obón & Alcaraz and published in Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 93: 145.
2006.


See also
Capparis
Glossary of plant morphology
History of botany
Timeline of British botany


References

Maasinhon Trio
Maasinhon Trio was a musical group in the Philippines, known for being the grand winner in the third season of the Philippine Got Talent franchise.


Background
The Maasinhon Trio is a group from Southern Leyte in the Philippines and is composed by Andrew Sanchez, Licinio Lolo and Bonifacio Salubre.
Prior to winning Pilipinas Got Talent, they performed at weddings, birthdays and other occasions, all while taking day jobs: Lolo works with the provincial government, Sanchez is a warehouse chief in the Southern Leyte Electric Cooperative and Salubre is a fire officer.
The trio, who also earned the distinction of being the oldest grand winner for Pilipinas Got Talent, garnered 22.59% of the total text and online votes and took home the grand prize of ₱2 million.


Reception
On performance night of the Pilipinas Got Talent, the trio earned acclaim from judges Ai-Ai delas Alas, Kris Aquino, ABS-CBN former president Freddie M.
Garcia and the crowd with their version of "Nais Ko" by Basil Valdez.
The trio was also compared to APO Hiking Society, a veteran Filipino musical group composed of Jim Paredes, Danny Javier and Boboy Garovillo owing to their good rendition of the songs they perform.
Maasinhon's win caused some controversy, however.
According to Karen Valeza of Yahoo!
News, "The trio drew the ire of viewers as favorites El Gamma Penumbra from Tanauan City, Batangas, Synergy of Negros Occidental, and Muriel Lomadilla of Cebu City did not even reach the final three.
These viewers thought [the trio] pale[s] in comparison to these performers." In a report, the audience of the Pilipinas Got Talent at the time expressed dissatisfaction over the results.
Nevertheless, in a live interview on The Buzz, the trio stated they are respecting other people's opinion.


See also
Pilipinas Got Talent (season 3)
Jovit Baldivino
Marcelito Pomoy
Khalil Ramos
Markki Stroem


References

Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant
The Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant at Bathinda was one of the three coal-fired thermal power stations in Punjab (the other being at Lehra Mohabat and Ropar).

It was a medium-sized power station with four units that were begun to be built in early 1970s and completed in 1982.
All total generate up to 460 MW (2x110+2x120 MW) of power that meets the irrigation needs of lower Punjab.
Having generated electricity to meet the power demand of Punjab, the thermal plant shut down indefinitely on September 27, 2017.
The plant was named after the first Sikh guru and founder of Sikhism, Guru Nanak.


Capacity
It had an installed capacity of 440 MW.
All four units ceased operations in September 2017


See also
List of places named after Guru Nanak Dev


References


External links
Indo-German Power Aggrements
Lecture by Dr.
S.
Banerjee on Power Generation in India
Thermal Plant as seen from Muktsar Road

Moses Kweku Oppong
Moses Kweku Oppong (2 October 1915 – 1986) was the founder of the band Kakaiku, which was created in 1954.
He and his band were important parts of the highlife music genre, and is connected to other important musician like C.
K.
Mann.
Born in Aboso in the Western Region, he learned to play guitar as a child and started becoming a musician.
Before the band became popular, he worked in various other jobs, including blacksmith, winch greaser and driver in the Aboso Goldfields.


References


Further reading
Ademowo, Paul 'Wale (1995).
The Highlife Years: History of Highlife Music in Nigeria.
Effective Publishers.
ISBN 9789783220843.

Austin Allen
Austin Allen may refer to:

Austin Allen (quarterback) (born 1994), American football player
Austin Allen (baseball) (born 1994), American baseball player
Austin Allen (tight end) (born 1998), American football player
Austin Allen (1901–1959), American country musician and member of The Allen Brothers

Louis Pillemer
Louis Pillemer (1908 – August 31, 1957) was an American immunologist, an early investigator of the alternative complement pathway (a system of defense not dependent upon antibodies).


Biography
Pillemer was born in Johannesburg, South Africa, in 1908, the son of Lithuanian parents.
He was brought to the United States at the age of one year, and was naturalized in 1916.
He attended public schools in Catlettsburg and Ashland, Kentucky, and began collegiate work at Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio, later attending Marshall College at Huntington, West Virginia, and Duke University at Durham, North Carolina.
At Duke he received a B.S.
degree in 1932, and started studying medicine in the same school, he however quit the course in middle of his third year.

Kentucky at the time encouraged those with medical knowledge to serve patients in areas not normally served by physicians, he passed the examination required and began to travel across the state on horseback, visiting and tending to the sick.
He quit this job in 1935 and entered graduate school at Western Reserve University where he would stay rest of his life.
He earned a reputation as an excellent biochemist and was the first to purify tetanus and diphtheria toxins which were later used to develop the DPT vaccine.

Pillemer later began to conduct experiments related to the complement system, he was intrigued by experiments at the time which showed that mixing human serum with zymosan resulted in the loss of C3 component of the complement system.
This led him to the discovery of properdin in 1954.
By 1957, Pillemer's behaviour started to become erratic and he began abusing alcohol and experimenting with drugs.
On 31 August of the same year, Pillemer was found dead at his home in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, at the age of 49 years.
He died due to acute barbiturate intoxication.
His death which happened soon after the publication of Nelson's objections, was ruled a suicide.
He was survived by a wife and four young sons.


Properdin Discovery
He led a team at Western Reserve University which discovered properdin in 1954, and this discovery received attention from the national press as a breakthrough in immunology.
In 1957, Robert Nelson challenged these findings, and claimed that Pillemer's results were due to laboratory errors.
Nelson's view prevailed at the time, but further study in the 1960s largely led to a confirmation of much of Pillemer's work.


References

Neleus
Neleus (; Ancient Greek: Νηλεύς) was a mythological king of Pylos.
In some accounts, he was also counted as an Argonaut instead of his son, Nestor.


Family
Neleus was the son of Poseidon and Tyro, and brother of Pelias.
According to Pausanias, Neleus was the son of Cretheus, King of Iolcus, who was himself a son of Aeolus.
With Chloris, Neleus was the father of Pero, Periclymenus, Alastor, Chromius, Asterius, Deimachus, Epilaus, Eurybius, Eurymenes, Evagoras, Phrasius, Pylaon, Taurus and Nestor.
Some say that Chloris was mother only of three of Neleus' sons (Nestor, Periclymenus and Chromius), whereas the rest were his children by different women, but other accounts explicitly disagree with the statement.
Otherwise, the mother of Nestor was called Polymede.


Mythology
Tyro was married to Cretheus (with whom she had three sons, Aeson, Pheres, and Amythaon), though she loved Enipeus, a river god.
She pursued Enipeus, who refused her advances.
One day, Poseidon, filled with lust for Tyro, disguised himself as Enipeus.
From their union were born Pelias and Neleus, twin boys.
Tyro exposed her sons on a mountain, but they were found and raised by a maid.
When they reached adulthood, Pelias and Neleus found their mother Tyro and then killed her stepmother, Sidero, for having mistreated her.
Sidero tried to hide in a temple to Hera but Pelias killed her anyway, earning himself Hera's undying hatred.
Neleus and Pelias then fought for the crown, and Neleus was banished to Messenia.
There he was welcomed by his cousin Aphareus who gave him the maritime part of the land where he settled and established his palace.
Neleus eventually became King of Pylos.
Heracles later asked Neleus to cleanse him of the blood-debt he gained by killing his own wife and children, but was refused.
In retaliation, he killed Neleus and his sons, except for Nestor.


Notes


References
Apollodorus, The Library with an English Translation by Sir James George Frazer, F.B.A., F.R.S.
in 2 Volumes, Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd.
1921.
ISBN 0-674-99135-4.
Online version at the Perseus Digital Library.
Greek text available from the same website.
Diodorus Siculus, The Library of History translated by Charles Henry Oldfather.
Twelve volumes.
Loeb Classical Library.
Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press; London: William Heinemann, Ltd.
1989.
Vol.
3.
Books 4.59–8.
Online version at Bill Thayer's Web Site
Diodorus Siculus, Bibliotheca Historica.
Vol 1-2.
Immanel Bekker.
Ludwig Dindorf.
Friedrich Vogel.
in aedibus B.
G.
Teubneri.
Leipzig.
1888–1890.
Greek text available at the Perseus Digital Library.
Gaius Julius Hyginus, Fabulae from The Myths of Hyginus translated and edited by Mary Grant.
University of Kansas Publications in Humanistic Studies.
Online version at the Topos Text Project.
Pausanias, Description of Greece with an English Translation by W.H.S.
Jones, Litt.D., and H.A.
Ormerod, M.A., in 4 Volumes.
Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd.
1918.
ISBN 0-674-99328-4.
Online version at the Perseus Digital Library
Pausanias, Graeciae Descriptio.
3 vols.
Leipzig, Teubner.
1903.
 Greek text available at the Perseus Digital Library.
Publius Ovidius Naso, Metamorphoses translated by Brookes More (1859–1942).
Boston, Cornhill Publishing Co.
1922.
Online version at the Perseus Digital Library.
Publius Ovidius Naso, Metamorphoses.
Hugo Magnus.
Gotha (Germany).
Friedr.
Andr.
Perthes.
1892.
Latin text available at the Perseus Digital Library.


Further reading

Douglas Frame (2009).
Hippota Nestor.
Washington, DC: Center for Hellenic Studies
Douglas Frame (1978).
The Myth of Return in Early Greek Epic.
New Haven: Yale University Press.
Keith Dickson (1995).
Nestor: Poetic Memory in Greek Epic.
NY: Garland Publishers.
Keith Dickson (1993).
"Nestor Among the Sirens", Oral Tradition.
8/1: 21–58.
Richard R.
Martin (2012).
Review of Douglas Frame Hippota Nestor 2009 in American Journal of Philology.
133.4 (Winter 2012): 687-692
Hanna Roisman (2005).
"Nestor the Good Counselor".
Classical Quarterly 55: 17-38.
doi:10.1093/cq/bmi002
Victoria Pedrick (1983).
"The Paradignatic Nature of Nestor's Speech".
Transactions and Proceedings of the American Philological Assn..
113: 55–68.
R.M.
Frazer (1971).
"Nestor's Generations, Iliad 2.250-2".
Glotta.
49:216-8.
V.C.
Mathews (1987).
"Kaukonian Dyme: Antimachus fr.27-8 and the text of Homer".
Eranos.
85: 91–7.
Jack L.
Davis (ed) (1998).
Sandy Pylos: An Archaeological History from Nestor to Navarino.
Austin: University of Texas Press.
William G.
Loy (1970).
Land of Nestor: A Physical Geography of the Southwest Peloponnesos.
Washington, DC.
National Academy of Sciences.
Carl Blegen and Marion Rawson (ed) (1966).
Palace of Nestor at Pylos in Western Messenia for University of Cincinnati by Princeton University Press.

Catholic Church in Saint Lucia
The Catholic Church in St.
Lucia is part of the worldwide Catholic Church, under the spiritual leadership of the Pope and the curia in Rome.
Catholics form roughly a two-thirds majority (61.5%) of the island's population of 163,362 (2004).
The entire country comprises a single diocese, the Archdiocese of Castries.
Saint Lucia is a member of the Antilles Episcopal Conference and shares a single apostolic nuncio with the other nations that are part of the episcopal conference.


References

Dark hunter
Dark hunter may refer to:

Austrogomphus bifurcatus, a species of dragonfly, native to northern Australia
Dark-Hunter, a paranormal romance novel series by Sherrilyn Kenyon
Dark-Hunter Universe, a fictional world in which multiple interlocking series by Sherrilyn Kenyon come together, see The Dark-Hunter, Dream-Hunter, Were-Hunter and Hellchaser Universe
Dark HunTor may refer to Operation Dark HunTor a U.S.
law enforcement operation regarding The Onion Browser (TOR) aka the dark web.

Driopea
Driopea is a genus of beetles in the family Cerambycidae, containing the following species:
subgenus Driopea

Driopea clytina Pascoe, 1858
Driopea schmidi Breuning, 1971
Driopea setosa Aurivillius, 1922
subgenus Fasciatodriopea

Driopea chinensis Breuning, 1967
Driopea griseobasalis Breuning, 1968
Driopea nigrofasciata Pic, 1926
subgenus Inermodriopea

Driopea atronotata Pic, 1929
Driopea cyrtomera Aurivillius, 1922
Driopea delta Aurivillius, 1922
Driopea griseonotata Breuning, 1957
Driopea inermis Pascoe, 1864
Driopea nigromaculata Pic, 1926
subgenus Luteodriopea

Driopea luteolineata Pic, 1926
subgenus Trichodriopea

Driopea excavatipennis Breuning, 1980


References

Mountain holly
Mountain holly is a common name for several plants and may refer to:

Olearia macrodonta, endemic to New Zealand
Ilex montana, native to eastern North America
Ilex mucronata, native to eastern North America

National Museum of Archaeology, Anthropology and History of Peru
The National Museum of Archaeology, Anthropology, and History of Peru (Spanish: Museo Nacional de Arqueología, Antropología e Historia del Perú, MNAAHP) is the largest and oldest museum in Peru, housed at the Palacio de la Magdalena, located in the main square of Pueblo Libre, a district of Lima, Peru.
The museum houses more than 100,000 artifacts spanning the entire history of human occupation in what is now Peru.
Highlights include the Raimondi Stele and an impressive scale model of the Incan citadel, Machu Picchu.
As of 2023, the museum is under restoration and very few rooms are open for visitors.


History

The National Museum of Peru (Spanish: Museo Nacional del Perú) was founded under the patronage of José de San Martín in 1822 by José Bernardo de Tagle, Bernardo de Monteagudo and Mariano Eduardo de Rivero y Ustariz, who assumed the task of directing the project in 1826.
Without a fixed location, The collection settled in various places until 1872, when it was exhibited in the main palace of the International Exhibition.
The first collection was made based on original archaeological excavations, donations and purchases of various pre-Hispanic objects.
All of it, except the Raimondi Stele, disappeared as a result of looting during the occupation of Lima by Chilean troops during the War of the Pacific.
Due to this, the Museum was dissolved as it did not have enough pieces for its exhibition.
On May 6, 1905, it was recreated under the name of Museum of National History (Spanish: Museo de Historia Nacional), with José Augusto de Izcue being appointed director, who hired the prestigious German archaeologist Max Uhle.
Izcue was in charge of the colonial and republican area, while Uhle directed the pre-Hispanic themes.
On July 29 of that year the new museum was inaugurated with the presence of President José Pardo y Barreda.
In 1911 Julio C.
Tello assumed the archaeological area, with Emilio Gutiérrez de Quintanilla being director.
By then the museum had a collection of more than 9,000 inventoried archaeological pieces, and an unestimated number of anthropological and historical objects.
Due to disagreements between the director and Tello, the Archeology section became independent in 1924 as the Museum of Peruvian Archeology (Spanish: Museo de Arqueología Peruana), while the colonial and republican part adopted the name of the Bolivarian Museum (Spanish: Museo Bolivariano).
Both museums, installed in the Magdalena Palace of Pueblo Libre, were inaugurated by President Augusto B.
Leguía.
While the pieces of the Bolivarian Museum were exhibited in the palace's premises, for the Museum of Archeology the facilities were modified, creating a new museum space by the Portuguese architect Raúl María Pereira.
The Museum of Peruvian Archeology had a collection based on pre-existing archaeological pieces in the Museum of National History, to which the Larco collection was added.
This was the collection of Víctor Larco Herrera, which President Augusto B.
Leguía purchased from him in 1923 and formed, together with the Paracas de Tello collections, the basis of the collections of the current museum.
Tello was in charge of increasing this collection based on excavations and archaeological research in various places in Peru, as well as appropriate restoration and conservation.

In 1930, Tello was dismissed.
The Peruvian government decided to merge both museums, adopting the name with which it was born: National Museum (Spanish: Museo Nacional).
One of the tasks of this institution, whose direction fell to Luis E.
Valcárcel, was to supervise the creation of other museums in various cities in Peru.
Another important task was the publication of a periodical magazine, the Revista del Museo Nacional, which was published continuously until 2001.
In 1945, at Tello's request, the newly established Superior Council of Museums once again divided the National Museum into the National Museum of Anthropology and Archeology (Spanish: Museo Nacional de Antropología y Arqueología), under the direction of Tello, and the National Museum of History (Spanish: Museo Nacional de Historia), with Valcárcel at the head.
Both museums maintained their location in the palace.
In 1981 a robbery occurred at the Museum.
Some thieves were able to bypass the security system and steal about 220 pieces of gold and silver, including the Tumi lambayeque.
Finally in 1992 they merged again, creating the current museum, and passing under the supervision of the now extinct National Institute of Culture.
Among its directors are recognised intellectual personalities from Peru, such as Fernando Silva Santiesteban, Duccio Bonavia, Luis Guillermo Lumbreras, María Rostworowski and Franklin Pease.


Collection

The MNAAHP has an enormous variety of historical cultural objects from Peruvian history, housing more than 300,000 pieces that cover the entire human occupation of what is now Peru.
The museum's permanent exhibition occupies an area of 23,000 m² spread across 30 rooms.
The importance and quality of the objects on display and stored in its museum reserves make it the most important museum in Peru.
Among its most important treasures are the Crossed Hands of Kotosh, the Raimondi Stele of Chavín, the Tello Obelisk, mantles from Paracas, and various paintings from the viceregal period, mainly from the Cuzco School of painting, and from the Republican period, including works by some renowned painters such as José Gil de Castro.


Former directors
Rebeca Carrión Cachot
Julio César Tello


See also
Museums in Lima
Church of Santa María Magdalena (Lima), located nearby


References


External links

(in Spanish) National Museum website Archived 2018-06-03 at the Wayback Machine

Fighting Instinct (album)
Fighting Instinct was the debut album of the band Fighting Instinct, released on June 27, 2006.
The self-titled album consists of 10 tracks.
The album's lead single, "I Found Forever", rose to No.
31 on the active rock charts with virtually no touring.
Another single, "Back to You", reached No.
5 on the Christian CHR charts.
"Back to You" was also featured on a Gotee Records compilations named "Gotee Hits".
An acoustic version of "Back to You" was recorded for another Gotee Records compilation, called "Gotee Acoustic".
"Just to Please You" was featured on another Gotee Records compilation named "Gotee Worship".


Critical reception

Christa A.
Banister, grading the album an A− for CCM Magazine, writes, "While the formula that Fighting Instinct has come up with isn’t exactly new, the songs are so well-conceived that you don’t care."


Track listing


Singles

"I Found Forever"
"Back to You"
"Just to Please You"


Personnel
TJ Harris – vocals, guitars
Jason Weekly – bass guitar
Dallas Farmer – drums


References

Raba (Vistula)
The Raba is a river in the south of Poland (Lesser Poland Voivodeship), and a right-bank tributary of Vistula River.
Its source is in the Beskids, between the towns of Rabka-Zdrój and Nowy Targ.
It flows to the north and then to the northeast.
Towns along the river Raba include Rabka-Zdrój, Mszana Dolna, Myślenice, Dobczyce and Bochnia.
For centuries, the Raba was an important artery, along which several towns and villages were established.
Its name probably comes from Celtic languages, and the Raba is divided into three parts: the Upper Raba (60 kilometres [37 mi] long located in the Beskids), the Middle Raba (in the Carpathian Foothills), and the Lower Raba (in the Sandomierz Basin).
The Raba has its source at the Sieniawa mountain pass, at the height of 750 metres (2,460 ft) above sea level.
It flows into the Vistula near Uscie Solne, after 134.7 kilometres (83.7 mi), while the area of its drainage basin is  1,537.1 square kilometres (593.5 sq mi).
From its source downstream to the town of Myślenice, the Raba is a typical mountain river, with narrow valley, rock-covered bed, fast currents and big drops.
Below Lake Dobczyce it retains its mountain features for several kilometers.
The river has no tributaries for its last 19 kilometres (12 mi).
The Raba marks the boundary between the Makow Beskids and the Island Beskids, as well as the boundary between the Wieliczka Foothills, and the Wisnicz Foothills.
Its tributaries are mainly mountain streams, such as Poniczanka, Slonka, Krzyworzeka, Mszanka, Kasinianka, Kaczanka, Krzczonówka, Trzemesnianka, Stradomka, Babica.


See also
Rivers of Poland
1934 flood in Poland


Sources
Description of the Raba Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine


External links
Fishing on the Raba Archived 2016-09-30 at the Wayback Machine
Kayaking on the Raba

Rajkumari Singh
Rajkumari Singh (13 October 1923 – 1979) was an Indo-Caribbean, Guyanese writer, political activist, educator, and cultural leader.
She is the author of the essay "I am a Coolie".
Singh was the first published Indian woman from the Caribbean and although she never used the term "feminist," her life's work contributed to feminist literature of the Caribbean, in addition to her advancement of a national Guyanese culture of integration while still upholding Indian culture within this new construct.


Poetry
Her iconic poem, "Per Ajie," epitomizes the journey of Indians to the Caribbean, through the eyes of an Indo-Caribbean visualizing her paternal great-grandmother making the voyage on one of the historic migratory ships headed for Guyana.
It was written in a Shakespearean style of language, in order to elevate the topic of Indian indentureship into circles of serious literary critique.
Another piece, "I See Bent Figures," describes the struggles and achievements of indentured Indians laboring on plantations in the Caribbean.
Singh's work is an important part of the early Hindu Caribbean literary canon, with her poem "No More Kitchrie for the Groom" shedding light on the shared responsibility of families and communities for the well-being of daughters, and the abuse of the Hindu tradition of dowry.
Another of her poems "Deepavali," is a piece documenting Diwali rituals in the Caribbean.


Other works
Singh was also a dramatist whose work has been described as lively and polemical.
A "critic of Indian racial chauvinism and gender oppression", she was a key member of the British Guiana Dramatic Society during the period from 1929 to 1947.
Her essay "I am a Coolie" takes a word which at first connoted something negative and turns it into a concept of positive cultural identity.
In the 1970s, she founded The Messenger Group, a Guyanese literary collective created to foster and nurture Indo-Caribbean artists and writers.
Those mentored within this group include Mahadai Das, Rooplall Monar, Henry Muttoo, and Gushka Kisson, among others.
Also a broadcaster on Radio Demerara, Singh wrote several radio plays and on-air programs for "Broadcast to Schools."


Awards
Singh was a Wordsworth McAndrew Award Laureate (2002) and was also honored with Guyana's Arrow of Achievement (1970).


Personal life
Singh hailed from and proliferated a lineage of arts and activism.
Her father was Dr.
Jung Bahadur Singh, OBE, a politician, doctor, and philanthropist who founded the British Guiana East Indian Association.
Singh's father, and her mother, Alice Bhagwandai Singh, were co-founders of the British Guiana Dramatic Society, which produced plays with an Indo-Caribbean cast and crew.
Her maternal grandfather, Seetal Prashad was a worked for Indian rights.
Singh, crippled by polio from the age of six, had eight children, and continuing the family legacy of arts and activism, her son, Karna Singh, is an author and cultural historian, and her son Gora Singh, was the Caribbean's most highly acclaimed kathak dance exponent and founder of The Rajkumari Cultural Center, a New York-based non-profit cultural organization.
Her daughter, Pritha, is a dramatist and playwright, and her daughters Chitra and Radha are musicians, composers, vocalists and recording artists.
Singh's granddaughter, Sharda Shakti Singh, is a playwright.


Selected works
(1960) A Garland of Stories
(1971) Days of the Sahib : Collection of Poems
(1972) Children Stories of Guyana : Compilation 
(1974) The Sound of Her Bells


References

Campbell County Courthouse
Campbell County Courthouse may refer to:

Campbell County Courthouse (Georgia), Fairburn, Georgia
Campbell County Courthouse (Newport, Kentucky), listed on the National Register of Historic Places
Campbell County Courthouse (Virginia), Rustburg, Virginia
Campbell County Courthouse (Wyoming), Sheridan, Wyoming

Dubon
Dubon or Dubón may refer to:

Dubon coat, Israel Defense Forces windproof military winter coat
Estadio Meliton Dubón, a stadium located in Macuelizo, Santa Barbara


People
Edipcia Dubón, Nicaraguan politician and human rights activist
Eduardo Epaminondas González Dubón, president of the Constitutional Court of Guatemala who was assassinated in 1994
Mauricio Dubón (born 1994), Honduran professional baseball player
Víctor Hugo Merino Dubón (born 1979), a Salvadoran soccer player

List of shipwrecks in 1770
The List of shipwrecks in 1770 includes some of the ships sunk, wrecked, or otherwise lost during 1770.


January


5 January


11 January


12 January


13 January


16 January


27 January


Unknown date


February


7 February


8 February


15 February


18 February


28 February


Unknown date


March


9 March


11 March


13 March


17 March


31 March


Unknown date


April


2 April


6 April


15 April


20 April


21 April


Unknown date


May


5 May


13 May


31 May


June


2 June


3 June


7 June


11 June


Unknown date


July


2 July


23 July


Unknown date


August


Unknown date


September


7 September


15 September


Unknown date


October


17 October


28 October


Unknown date


November


5 November


10 November


December


12 December


19 December


27 December


Unknown date


Unknown date


References

Tatyana Polenova
Tatyana Polenova is a professor in chemistry and biochemistry at the University of Delaware.
She is the editor-in-chief of the Journal of Magnetic Resonance since 2021.
Her research interest involves using solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance, combined with computational and other biophysical methods, to understand the structure, dynamics, and function of complex macromolecular assemblies, both biological and inorganic.


Education and career
Polenova obtained her B.S.
at the Lomonosov Moscow State University in 1992.
She obtained her Ph.D.
at Columbia University in 1997 and continued her postdoctoral research with Ann McDermott.
She was appointed to assistant professor at Hunter College of the City University of New York in 1999, and moved to the University of Delaware in 2003, where she achieved full professor in 2011.
She is the director of the NIH-COBRE "Molecular Design of Advanced Biomaterials" since 2014.


Research
Polenova uses nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR), specifically solid-state NMR, to investigate the structure and dynamics of biopolymers and inorganic materials.
Her research focuses on the protein-based capsid assemblies of HIV-1, the most common strain of the virus that causes HIV/AIDS.
She has also investigated protein assemblies that are associated with microtubules, important in the cytoskeleton, where breakdown of these assemblies can lead to various diseases.
To enable new insight on complex systems, she develops new solid-state NMR methods for fast magic angle spinning (40–110 kHz), 19F NMR, and signal enhancement using dynamic nuclear polarization.


References

La finta pazza
La finta pazza (The feigned madwoman) is an opera composed by Francesco Sacrati to a libretto by Giulio Strozzi.
Its premiere in Venice during the Carnival season of 1641 inaugurated the Teatro Novissimo.
It became one of the most popular operas of the seventeenth century.


History


Venice, 1641
On 30 May 1640, the decision was made to create a new opera house in Venice, to compete with the existing three opera houses, the Teatro San Cassiano, the Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo, and the Teatro San Moisè.
The Teatro Novissimo marked the first time that a building was created specifically for opera.
Early in 1641, before the opera had been performed for the first time, the libretto was already printed.
This was highly unusual and a first for Venice, but would become standard practice at the Teatro Novissimo.
Giulio Strozzi was already a well-established libretto writer at the time, and had in 1627 collaborated with Claudio Monteverdi on La finta pazzi Licori, an aborted opera for which no libretto or music has survived.
Francesco Sacrati not only wrote the music but also arranged for the singers, with the role of Deidamia, the "madwoman" from the title, given to the young soprano Anna Renzi, who had only made her debut in Rome the previous year and would now perform in Venice for the first time.
The stage designs and visual effects were made by Giacomo Torelli and described in a 55-page booklet, the Cannocchiale per la finta pazza ("Telescope on the feigned madwoman") that appeared after the opera season.
La finta pazza, the tenth opera ever in Venice, premiered in the Carnival season, and partly due to the good publicity campaign it was a great success, with 12 performances in Venice in 17 days.
The libretto was reprinted already the same month, and for the first time in Venice, the opera house reopened after Easter to produce more performances of the work.


Later performances
The opera was produced in Piacenza in 1644, by the Accademici Febiarmonici; the libretto was printed (with some modifications, omitting the name of Strozzi and references to Venice) in Codogno.
The same year, Strozzi again reprinted the libretto under his own name, in reaction to this.
The Codogno version was reprinted in Bologna in 1647.
Further performances happened in 1645 in Florence and in Paris (see below).
1647 saw productions in Bologna, by the Accademici Discordati with the probable participation of Francesco Sacrati, and in Genoa; the next year it could be seen in Turin and Reggio Emilia, and in 1652 it appeared in Naples and Milan.
In 1679, it again appeared in Reggio Emilia, this time titled Gli Amori Sagaci.
All these performances were using the same libretto, but it is unknown whether they used the same music by Sacrati or other music (having different music for the same libretto at the same time was not unusual).
The opera is considered to be one of the most successful operas of the seventeenth century, and the first big hit of the genre.


Paris production of 1645
The Paris production of 1645, presumably the second opera ever in France, was organized by Cardinal Mazarin in December 1645 and staged again by Giacomo Torelli.
It featured additional ballets by Giovan Battista Balbi.
The performance, in the Hôtel du Petit-Bourbon, was seen by Anne of Austria, queen consort of France, and her son, Louis XIV.
Torelli had Nicolas Cochin engrave his designs and published them in a booklet with the libretto and much information about the stage design and dramatics.
Torelli's sets for Paris were not like the ones for Venice, since the published descriptions are quite different and for the Paris production he introduced a new setting for the prologue, which now took place in Flora's garden, and the inferno scene was omitted.
Hoping to flatter his French patrons, Torelli included in the background for Act I, scenes 1–2 (The port of Skyros), a view of the Place Dauphine and the relatively new equestrian statue of Henri IV on the Pont Neuf.
He was unsure about the reception of this set, since it may have been regarded as inappropriate.
The remainder of this design was based on the one he used in Venice for the 1642 premiere of Sacrati's Bellerofonte, which in turn was based on Chenda's Ermiona, produced in Padua in 1636.
Ship's prows were visible on the right and on the left, a tall city wall with round towers, evoking the Tour de Nesle in Paris, while for Bellerofonte he had used square towers like those of the Arsenal in Venice.


Aftermath and influence
Strozzi returned to the Teatro Santi Giovanni e Paolo for which he made two further operas, La finta savia and Romolo e Remo, which are considered to form a trilogy with La finta pazza, with stories about the origins of Venice (which was said to be related to the fall of Troy).
Sacrati, Torelli and Renzi stayed with the Teatro Novissimo for new operas in 1642, but followed Strozzi to the Giovanni e Paolo in 1643.
The Novissimo closed down in 1646.
La finta pazza is said to have been responsible for the use of disguise as a central plot element in many later operas, even though its "men-disguised-as-woman" theme was usually reversed in later works.
Other aspects of the work which were highly influential include its use of song (with a character who is a singer), the plot element of sleep, and especially the use of madness.
Real or feigned madness was used in many operas in the next fifteen years, starting already in 1641 with Didone by Francesco Cavalli, and with the end of the craze in 1657 with Le fortune di Rodope e Damira by Aurelio Aureli and Pietro Andrea Ziani, which was also the final role of Anna Renzi in Venice.
While the story of Achilles in Scyros was known since ancient times, it was the first time that it had been turned into an opera.
The opera remained influential in the next century as well, when Pietro Metastasio created in 1736 his hugely popular libretto Achille in Sciro, which was set to music more than sixty times in the next hundred years.
Metastasio countered the more comical and female-oriented approach of Strozzi with a text which was much more serious and used Achilles as the main role instead of Deidamia.


Story
La finta pazza is a variation on the story of Achilles on Skyros, with Deidamia and Achilles as the main characters, and also starring Licomedes, Ulysses, Caronte and Diomedes.
It is set on the island Skyros in the months before the start of the Trojan War.
Deidamia is the secret lover of Achilles, and together they have a son, Pyrrhus.
Achilles was sent to the island by his mother to avoid him being caught up in the Trojan War, and he lives there undercover, disguised as a princess.
Ulysses and Diomedes, looking for allies in the war, have come to the island; when Achilles wants to join the war, Deidamia feigns madness to keep him on the island.
In the end they marry and depart together.


Recordings


Audio
2021: Cappella Mediterranea, conducted by Leonardo García Alarcón; Mariana Flores (Deidamia), Paul-Antoine Bénos-Djian (Achille), Carlo Vistoli (Ulisse), Valerio Contaldo (Diomede), Alejandro Meerapfel (Licomede), Kacper Szelążek (Eunuco), Marcel Beekman (Nodrice), Salvo Vitale (Capitano), Julie Roset (Aurora/Giunone), Fiona McGown (Tetide/Vittoria), Alexander Miminoshvili (Vulcano/Giove), Norma Nahoun (Fama/Minerva), Aurélie Marjot (Donzella 1), Anna Piroli (Donzella 2), Sarah Hauss (Donzella 3).
Recorded from 9 to 13 June 2021 at the Royal Opera of Versailles.
Château de Versailles Spectacles, 3 CDs.


Video
2022: Orchestre de l'Opéra Royal, conducted by Leonardo García Alarcón; Mariana Flores (Deidamia), Filippo Mineccia (Achille), Gabriel Jublin (Ulisse), Valerio Contaldo (Diomede), Alejandro Meerapfel (Licomede), Norma Nahoun (Minerva/La Fama), Kacper Szelążek (Eunuco), Marcel Beekman (Nodrice), Salvo Vitale (Capitano), Julie Roset (Aurora/Giunone), Fiona McGown (Tetide/Vittoria), Ruben Ruf (Pirro).
Jean-Yves Ruf (stage director); a co-production of Château de Versailles Spectacles/Ozango.
Recorded at the Royal Opera of Versailles.
Streaming HD video (2h 48m): Medici.tv


Notes


Bibliography
Bjurström, Per (1962).
Giacomo Torelli and Baroque Stage Design, second revised edition.
Stockholm: Almquist & Wiksell.
OCLC 515763843.
Strozzi, Giulio (1641).
La finta pazza.
Venice: Giovanni Battista Surian.
(The original 1641 libretto)

Domain registration
Domain registration is the process of acquiring a domain name from a domain name registrar.


History
In 1993 the U.S.
Department of Commerce, in conjunction with several public and private entities, created InterNIC to maintain a central database that contains all the registered domain names and the associated IP addresses in the U.S.
(other countries maintain their own NICs (Network Information Centers) -- there is a link below that discusses Canada's system, for example).
Network Solutions, a member of InterNIC, was chosen to administer and maintain the growing number of Internet domain names and IP addresses.
This central database is copied to Top Level Domain (TLD) servers around the world and creates the primary routing tables used by every computer that connects to the Internet.
Each ICANN-accredited registrar must pay a fixed fee of US$4,000 plus a variable fee.
The sum of variable registrar fees is intended to total US$3.8 million.
The competition created by the shared registration system enables end users to choose from many registrars offering a range of related services at varying prices.


Designated registrar
Domain registration information is maintained by the domain name registries, which contract with domain registrars to provide registration services to the public.
Domain registrar examples include GoDaddy.com, Domain.com, Google Domains, NameCheap and IONOS.
An end user selects a registrar to provide the registration service, and that registrar becomes the designated registrar for the domain chosen by the user.
Only the designated registrar may modify or delete information about domain names in a central registry database.
It is not unusual for an end user to switch registrars, invoking a domain transfer process between the registrars involved, that is governed by specific domain name transfer policies.
Although the dedicated registrar is the only entity that can modify or delete information regarding domain names in the central registry, there are many domain resellers that allow you to sell domains.
You do not have to become a designated registrar in order to sell and register domains.
When a registrar registers a com domain name for an end-user, it must pay a maximum annual fee of US$7.34 to VeriSign, the registry operator for com, and a US$0.18 annual administration fee to ICANN.
Most domain registrars price their services and products to address both the annual fees and the administration fees that must be paid to ICANN.
Barriers to entry into the bulk registrar industry are high for new companies without an existing customer base.
Many registrars also offer registration through reseller affiliates.
An end-user registers either directly with a registrar, or indirectly through one or more layers of resellers.
 As of 2010, the retail cost generally ranges from a low of about $7.50 per year to about $35 per year for a simple domain registration, although registrars often drop the price far lower – sometimes even free – when ordered with other products.
The maximum period of registration for a domain name is  10 years.
Some registrars offer longer periods of up to 100 years, but such offers involve the registrar renewing the registration for their customer; the 100-year registration would not be in the official registration database.


DNS hosting

Registration of a domain name establishes a set of Start of Authority (SOA) records in the DNS servers of the parent domain, indicating the IP address (or domain name) of DNS servers that are authoritative for the domain.
 This provides merely a reference for how to find the domain data – not the actual domain data.
Registration of a domain does not automatically imply the provision of DNS services for the registered domain.
Most registrars do offer DNS hosting as an optional free service for domains registered through them.
 If DNS services are not offered, or the end-user opts out, the end-user is responsible for procuring or self-hosting DNS services.
 Without DNS services for the domain, the registration is essentially useless for Internet services, although this situation is often encountered with domain parking and cybersquatting.


Domain name transfer
A domain name transfer is the process of changing the designated registrar of a domain name.
ICANN has defined a Policy on Transfer of Registrations between Registrars.
The usual process of a domain name transfer is:

The end user verifies that the WHOIS or RDAP admin contact info is correct, particularly the email address; obtains the authentication code (EPP transfer code) from the old registrar, and removes any domain lock that has been placed on the registration.
 If the WHOIS or RDAP information had been out of date and is now updated, the end-user should wait 12–24 hours before proceeding further, to allow time for the updated data to propagate.
The end user contacts the new registrar with the wish to transfer the domain name to their service, and supplies the authentication code.
The gaining Registrar must obtain express authorization from either the Registered Name Holder or the Administrative Contact.
A transfer may only proceed if confirmation of the transfer is received by the gaining Registrar from one of these contacts.
The authorization must be made via a valid Standardized Form of Authorization, which may be sent e.g.
by e-mail to the e-mail addresses listed in the WHOIS or RDAP.
The Registered Name Holder or the Administrative Contact must confirm the transfer.
The new registrar starts electronically the transfer of the domain with the help of the authentication code (auth code).
The old registrar will contact the end user to confirm the authenticity of this request.
 The end user may have to take further action with the old registrar, such as returning to the online management tools, to re-iterate their desire to proceed, in order to expedite the transfer.
The old registrar will release authority to the new registrar.
The new registrar will notify the end user of transfer completion.
 The new registrar may have automatically copied over the domain server information, and everything on the website will continue to work as before.
 Otherwise, the domain server information will need to be updated with the new registrar.
After this process, the new registrar is the domain name's designated registrar.
The process may take about five days.
 In some cases, the old registrar may intentionally delay the transfer as long as allowable.
 After transfer, the domain cannot be transferred again for 60 days, except back to the previous registrar.
It is unwise to attempt to transfer a domain immediately before it expires.
In some cases, a transfer can take up to 14 days, meaning that the transfer may not complete before the registration expires.
This could result in loss of the domain name registration and failure of the transfer.
 To avoid this, end users should either transfer well before the expiration date, or renew the registration before attempting the transfer.
If a domain registration expires, irrespective of the reason, it can be difficult, expensive, or impossible for the original owner to get it back.
 After the expiration date, the domain status often passes through several management phases, often for a period of months; usually it does not simply become generally available.


See also
Domain name registry
Private sub-domain registry


References


External links
InterNIC Registrar Listing - Directory of ICANN accredited registrars listed alphabetically by name, location, and language supported.
Registrar Accreditation: Process
Registrar Accreditation: Financial Considerations
ICANN.
"Registry Operator Maximum Price Schedule" Revised VeriSign .com Registry Agreement: Appendix G.
16 April 2001.
RFC 2832 – NSI Registry Registrar Protocol (RRP) Version 1.1.0
RFC 3632 – VeriSign Registry Registrar Protocol (RRP) Version 2.0.0

Peter Gál-Andrezly
Peter Gál-Andrezly (born 3 May 1990) is a Slovak professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Liga I club FK Csíkszereda.


Career
Gal-Andrezly began his career with MFK Kosice and was in 2007 promoted to the seniorside of the Corgoň Liga.
Middlesbrough signed him in January 2009 on loan for 6 months.
He joined the Middlesbrough reserve team.
After the end of the loan contract with Middlesbrough F.C.
turned back to MFK Kosice on 1 July 2009.
Gal-Andrezly two guest appearances for Shamrock Rovers in friendlies against Newcastle and Real Madrid in July 2009 at Tallaght Stadium and then had a trial spell with Charlton Athletic F.C.


International career
Gál-Andrezly was a member of the Slovakia national under-19 football team and presented the team in the 2009 UEFA European Under-19 Football Championship qualification.


Personal life
His father Daniel Gál-Andrezly was the head coach of MFK Spartak Medzev of the II.
Slovenská Futbalová Liga.


Career statistics
As of match played 28 October 2025


Honours
Ružomberok

Slovak Cup runner-up: 2017–18
Sepsi OSK

Cupa României runner-up: 2019–20


Notes and references


External links
MFK Košice profile

Oleta Adams discography
The discography of Oleta Adams, an American singer, consists of seven studio albums, two compilations, a holiday album, and twenty singles.


Albums


Studio albums


Compilation albums


Singles


As main artist


As featured artist


Other appearances


Other recorded songs


Videography


Video albums


Music videos


References

Honour Chen-Williams
Honour Chen-Williams is a fictional character from the British soap opera Hollyoaks, played by Vera Chok.
The character and casting was announced in November 2021 and Honour made her first appearance on 10 December 2021.
Honour was introduced as Warren Fox's (Jamie Lomas) prison psychologist and later revealed to be part of a new Hollyoaks family, which included Honour's husband and their children.
The family was later expanded by the introduction of Honour's niece, Shing Lin Leong (Izzie Yip).
Chok was very grateful to be given the role, feeling that she had hit the bamboo ceiling, and felt proud in being part of the first East Asian family in a soap opera and was happy to represent East Asians on screen, although she felt a bit of pressure.
Chok was able to help slightly impact the development of the character and was also able to influence the set of Honour's home by adding a rice cooker and making it a no-shoe house.
Honour's initial storylines included her work with Warren and her relationship with Dave and their family, as well as trying to fit in into the community.
A 2022 episode sees Honour and her family celebrate Lunar New Year, with Hollyoaks being the first soap opera to celebrate it.
The character was given a short issue-based storyline when Honour and her daughter, Serena Chen-Williams (Emma Lau), experience Sinophobia, which Chok and other cast members praised for highlighting xenophobia and racism related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Honour then gives the other residents free therapy sessions in order to make friend and Chok praising the soap for highlighting mental health issues through this storyline.
Honour's other storylines include finding out that her marriage to Dave is invalid due to Dave still being married to his former wife, conflicts with her family, dealing with her son Mason Chen-Williams' (Frank Kauer) involvement in an incel chatroom, being fired from her job, the breakdown of her relationship with Dave and kissing Tony Hutchinson (Nick Pickard).
Honour later made an unannounced exit from the role, with Honour last appearing on 14 April 2023, when she left for a job in London, becoming the second member of the family to leave the soap.
Honour and her family were initially well received and longlisted for "Best family" at the 2023 Inside Soap Awards.
Honour's Lunar New Year and Sinophobia storylines also received praise.
However, by the time of her departure, the character was criticised for being underused, though her departure was considered emotional by critics.


Creation and casting
In November 2021, Hollyoaks released a winter trailer which revealed that Honour, Warren Fox's (Jamie Lomas) prison psychiatrist, would be one of five new characters to move into Hollyoaks, the fictional village of the soap opera.
The trailer also revealed that Honour's stepdaughter, Lizzie Chen-Williams (Lily Best), Honour's brother in law Ethan Williams (Matthew James-Bailey) and his girlfriend, Maya Harkwell (Ky Discala), and Honour's daughter Serena Chen-Williams (Emma Lau) would also be moving into the village, although it was not yet revealed that these characters were all part of the same family.
Later that month, it was confirmed that Honour would be played by Vera Chok, who Justin Harp from Digital Spy described as a "veteran actress".
Harp revealed that Honour would be "working overtime to get inside Warren's head" and would eventually "succeed" in getting a "shocking confession" from him, although teased that it was unclear whether Honour's "allegiances" would be with Warren or someone else.
Chok described joining Hollyoaks as a "dream come true!", commenting "As a Malaysian-Chinese first generation immigrant in the UK, the opportunity to play Honour – a fully rounded person with passions, quirks, and flaws – is an amazing milestone for me and also British TV".
Chok explained that she had "hit the ground running" by filming "high drama" with Lomas, who she called an "absolute sweetheart".
Chok also revealed that, much to her "delight", there had been "a gallon laughter, love and heart-warming joy" scenes with other cast members, but could not comment further on that.
Chok was grateful for the role as she had been "manifesting" playing a comedic character in a long-running series earlier on in 2021, and called Honour her "dream role" that she felt that been written for her.
Chok also revealed in an interview in early 2022 that she was enjoying being part of the Lime Pictures "family" due to everyone being so "nice".
Honour's first appearance aired on Channel 4 on 10 December 2021.
Chok felt that it was "amazing" to be cast in a soap opera after doing a variety of other projects, saying that she felt that she had "hit" the "bamboo ceiling" in her career and was grateful at being able to learn, calling the opportunity "incredible" and saying "I get to learn how TV is made and how to act in this particular style", which she hoped to bring it into her future projects.

Honour was later revealed to be part of the new "blended" Chen-Williams family, which also consisted of Honour's husband Dave (Dominic Power), their son Mason (Frank Kauer), their adoptive daughter Lizzie, Honour's daughter Serena, Dave's son Sam (Matthew McGivern) and Dave's half-brother Ethan, as well as Ethan's girlfriend Maya.
Most of the characters had been already introduced in seemingly unconnected storylines.
They were described as a "close-knit clan" whose first scenes as a family involved them celebrating Christmas together at The Dog in the Pond.
Stephen Patterson from Metro wrote that it was "safe to say" that the family would "make their mark on the eponymous village!" Dominic Knight from ATV Today noted that the family were taking the village "by storm".
Before the cast members of the family began filming, they had a "workshop day" where they got to know each other and spoke about what they thought their characters were like and what they wanted, as well as doing some improv with the writers so that they could see how the cast members talk and move together.
Chok noted that this does not often happen in the TV industry and revealed that, in addition to having input into the family's development, she was able to ask about her upcoming storylines.
Since the cast are given their scripts sent ahead, Chok was able to raise any questions about both cultural and non-cultural related queries.


Characterisation

An official Hollyoaks video highlighting the Chen-Williams family named Honour and Dave as "The fun loving parents".
Chok has said that one of her favourite aspects of Honour is when she is funny.
Power described Honour "very much the professional woman" whilst calling Dave "very family orientated", with Chok adding that Dave and Honour have a "very solid relationship" due to having a "very large brood", whilst adding that Dave and Honour have "been together for a long while and brought up this really adorable blended family".
Chok said that what she "loves" about Honour is that she is not "a stereotypical Chinese professional woman.
She has her flaws and she's also a goofball in life.
She struggles with real life stuff but she's very good at her job".
Chok has said that whilst Honour is a very "caring" person, she needs to look at her "work-life balance".
Chok added that Honour is "set on fixing everyone else".
Chok thought it was "such a big deal" to be the first full East Asian family in a soap opera, calling it a "big responsibility" to represent.
Chok hoped that other soap operas would introduce East Asian families, especially EastEnders due to the high Chinese population in the East End of London, and added that she thought all forms of media could be "more inclusive" of race, gender, age, religious background and sexuality, asking "We have so many stories out there and why not bring them to the world?" Chok felt "slightly validated as a human being" being on Hollyoaks due to it the importance of seeing East Asians and "people who look like you" on television, and called it "incredible" to now be one of those people.
Whilst discussing Honour and her family celebrating Lunar New Year, Chok revealed that more would be revealed about Honour's backstory, "family" and "why she is the way she is".
In early 2022, speaking about Honour's upcoming storylines, Chok revealed that Honour would get into more clashes with people, including "comedic run-ins" with some of the established characters, due to coming across as "meddling", but that Honour has good intentions and is just trying to help.
Chok added, "I think that's part of being an immigrant or an overthinking therapist.
She's like: 'I need to fit in!' So that leads to some comedic episodes."


Development


Family and friendships

Chok was grateful that the Chen-Williams were a "blended" and modern family, and, despite trying to not read comments online, was happy that the family was well received.
Chok felt pressure being part of the first East Asian family, and was very worried about whether the British public would be accepting of the family and whether she was doing a good job in "the eyes of the East Asian community." However, Chok did not feel alone due to there being "multiple East Asian creatives" both on screen and behind the camera, which she called "amazing" and meant that there was always people she could talk to, which was an experience that she was not used to.
She added that that was useful for "mental health and wellbeing" and "richer" for storylines due to getting "the detail of people", which breaks down "stereotypes and racism".
When Chok was asked by the production team about the set of the home of Chen-Williams family, Chok asked for there to "definitely" be a rice cooker in the home and noted that the home is "definitely a no-shoe house".
Chok noted "It's things like that which are so easily missed.
Day to day, I get to ask questions about anything that I'm concerned about."
Some fans speculated that Dave could follow a "dark path" due to Power previously portraying serial killer Cameron Murray on another British soap opera, Emmerdale.
Chok responded to the fan theories in an interview and said that she did not believe that Dave had an evil nature, calling him an "everyman" who is trying "his best in life".
However, she added that there is a darker side due to Dave not thinking that he is good enough, adding that there is "slight tension because Honour has got the posh job and he doesn't." Regarding Honour's relationship with Dave's younger brother, Sam, and how she would react to the news that he is a criminal, Chok said that Honour does "bitch" about him but would ultimately help him as she is "loyal" to her family that he is part of.
Chok said that one of her favourite scenes was when she threw Ethan's phone at him, calling it "satisfying".
Chok has also said:

"I think [Honour] can be quite mean to Ethan because he's her annoying brother-in-law.
But if she really saw that he's struggling in life – which he must be – then she would probably want to help him.
Whether or not she would be helpful, I don't know, she might make things worse!"
One of the family's first storylines saw it being revealed that Dave was the long-lost father of another character, Maxine Minniver (Nikki Sanderson).
Chok believed that whilst it would affect the way that the children see Dave, it would all "work out" due to the family already being blended, although warned that there would some difficulties along the way.
Chok wanted to work more with Sanderson and have Maxine become part of the "geeky" and "wholesome" family, adding that "I think that Nikki plays such a great character.
I would love to see how our family include Maxine in all of our cheesy games nights and what she thinks about that." Chok also thought that since Maxine is a "no-nonsense character", she would not let Honour "be bossing her around or anything like that", with Chok believing that Maxine would "set Honour straight".
Speaking about the love triangle between Serena, Lizzie and Sid Sumner (Billy Price), Chok called it a "surprise" to Honour, saying, "It's the worst nightmare, isn't it?
Your two daughters, who are the exact same age, have fallen for the same guy.
How do you navigate that?
One is your blood daughter and one is your adopted daughter and they're so different." Chok also said that Honour does "struggle" in giving "sensible boy advice".
Later in 2022, Honour and Serena are later "at odds" and are not "seeing eye to eye", with Chok explaining that it's "the usual situation of the parent motivated to act in the best interests of their child, but the child not necessarily seeing things the same way".
The two characters then have a "lovely" scene together where they reconnect, with Chok explaining that "Honour realises she's a bit of a workaholic and needs to manage her family life too.
They reach an understanding".
Chok has said that she "adores" Lau, who portrays Serena.
Chok noted that there was some underlying tension in the family, in addition to questions, such as who the children's other biological parents are and Honour and Dave's attitude towards them, as well as how the family members all feel about each other due to being different races; Chok promised that it all "comes to the surface".
In November 2022, it was announced that Honour's family would be expanded by the introduction of her niece, Shing Lin Leong, played by Izzie Yip, in December 2022.
Chok said that she "adores" Yip.
Regarding Honour's friendships, Chok revealed that whilst Honour is spending a lot of time with Diane, she thinks it would be fun to hang out with someone "unlikely", such as James Nightingale (Gregory Finnegan), as they would "argue" or be "super-bitchy together".
She also added that whilst Diane and Tony would be a "sensible" choice for Honour, it would not be exciting, adding that the character prefers "fiesty" people like Nancy Hayton (Jessica Fox), who Honour is "frenemies" with.
Chok also thought that Honour would be "best mates" with Donna-Marie Quinn (Lucy-Jo Hudson), saying that despite the two not having shared scenes yet, she thought Honour being "weirdly patronising" could lead to them "suddenly" becoming "best friends!" Hughes from Inside Soap noted that viewers have seen Honour "auditioning" for friends.


Warren Fox
Honour's initial storyline is beginning her job as Warren's prison psychiatrist, who has been imprisoned for the murder of Timmy Simons (Sam Tutty), which he did not commit.
In one of their sessions, Warren makes an "accidental confession" when he loses his patience and goes on a rant about his criminal past, where he "inadvertently" mentions that he ran someone else over and killed them, which is causing him guilt.
Honour, realising this is a "major secret", asks for more details, and later reveals to Warren that he is due to be released from prison depending on the report that she gives on the authorities.
Honour is found to be an "ally" of Warren as she "reluctantly" agrees to keep Warren's confession a secret when he pleads with her that it was a misunderstanding.
Daniel Kilkelly from Digital Spy questioned whether this could be a decision that Honour later regrets, whilst Kilkelly's colleague, Susannah Alexander, wrote that Honour "chose to put everything on the line" by ignoring what Warren had said.
The storyline is revisited when Warren tries to help Maxine, who is feeling rejected by Dave.
Warren's confession, which was recorded due to Honour recording all of sessions with her patients, later falls into the "wrong hands", putting Warren in "real danger".
Chok revealed that the scene where she got to "shout" at Warren was one of her favourite scenes due to Warren being built up as a "tough guy" and Warren being bigger than Honour, calling it "fun".


Sinophobia and Lunar New Year
In November 2021, Chok told Digital Spy that she had filmed a "gawp-worthy confrontation" scene with Katie McGlynn and Stephanie Waring, who portray Becky Quentin and Cindy Cunningham, respectively.
This was later revealed to be part of a "difficult Sinophobia storyline", where Becky makes some derogatory comments about China and the COVID-19 pandemic to Serena, which leads to Honour getting involved when she confronts Becky about it.
Becky "cruelly" berates Serena for ordering a package from China and uses conspiracy theories regarding the pandemic to justify her "racial outburst", which upsets Serena and shocks Cindy, who calls Becky a "bigot".
Cindy later confronts Becky with Honour, who calls Becky out on her hurtful comments and tells her how damaging they are, and threatens to report this as a hate crime if Becky hurts her family again.
Honour gives Becky "a piece of her mind" and notes that whilst she wants to think that there is some "hope" for Becky, she will not tolerate her hurting her family anymore.
Chok wrote on social media that she was "grateful" that Hollyoaks was bringing Sinophobia "to light", and added:

"The pandemic was and remains a difficult time for anyone who looks vaguely Chinese.
The history of under-reporting or ignoring racism towards people of East Asian descent is very sad.
Please support inclusion and anti-racism.
Thank you so much."

Lau, Serena's portrayer, also called it a "really important issue" that the soap was "tackling and representing", adding that she had friends who had experienced Sinophobia, which was "rampant" during the pandemic.
McGlynn wrote on social media how it was an important storyline to highlight due to the "huge rise of Sinophobia" and how it was important to call it out as racism, and noted how playing Becky made her uncomfortable due to Becky having views that the actress does not share at all, although noted that people like that "unfortunately" exist in real life, as well as urging any viewers affected to seek support via the Channel 4 website.
Honour and her family are seen celebrating Lunar New Year in a special episode broadcast in early 2022, with Hollyoaks becoming the first British soap opera to celebrate it.
Chok was very "grateful" that Hollyoaks included the celebrations, saying "Lunar New Year is like Christmas and New Year wrapped up in one for Chinese and other Asian people.
People come together and think about their family, whether they're close or far away." Chok was also grateful that the celebrations were "detailed" and showed the differences between the feelings of Honour and her children towards their culture due to Honour being an immigrant and her children being born in Britain.
Chok was also grateful that the production included an East Asian writer, cultural advisor and director in addition to actors, especially due to East Asians generally being very "invisible" in British Media.


Mental health
In May 2022, Honour offers free therapy consultations to the residents of Hollyoaks.
The storyline was part of the soap's ongoing commitment to raising awareness about mental health.
Chok said that Honour is offering her "skills" to those who "need a helping hand" as she is trying to make friends and embed herself in the community.
Honour's "kind gesture" allows the residents to face "tricky truths" but also "highlights some deep-rooted issuss" in Honour's own home that she has been avoiding.
Chok also said that Honour's idea is "not about selling her services and forcing people to spend hundreds of pounds on therapy – she wants to empower and make it clear there is support available if you're struggling", although noted that this was a form of "procrastination" as Honour is not facing "her own demons".
Honour gives advice to Cindy, Diane Hutchinson (Alex Fletcher), Liberty Savage (Jessamy Stoddart) and Darren Osborne (Ashley Taylor Dawson), who have all had mental illness struggles.
Chok praised the soap highlighting mental health, explaining that she likes "TV to entertain, but also have social impact to make people feel less isolated, especially in terms of identity issues, whether that's race, gender or being queer".
Johnathon Hughes from Inside Soap called it an "unusual" way of getting to know Honour's neighbours.


Family secrets and incel storyline
When interviewed by the Daily Mirror, Chok teased that there would be an upcoming twist for the Chen-Williams family, saying that the past would catch up with the family and that people "have been lying" to each other, and added, "watch out for the quiet ones in [Honour's] family.
Still waters run deep and all that." She said that it would cause "chaos" and "collateral damage" and would "challenge the whole happy family thing".
Chok also teased the upcoming Autumn stunt and hinted that there would be at least one character death, but denied that it would be Honour, saying "I just got here, you can't kill me off it's too soon.
If I die I want it to be really over the top, a proper controversial death." Chok told Inside Soap that the family had so far been very "happy" and "Disney"-like, but that the stunt week would "set off" many reveals, adding that there is a lot to be explored.
She revealed that Honour is keeping an eye on Lizzie and Serena but assumes that Mason is "fine", and that Honour does not know much about the secrets in the family.
In December 2022, Honour is "rendered speechless" when Dave reveals to her the "huge bombshell" that they are not legally married, as he was still married to his former wife, Flora, when he and Honour married.
This comes shortly after the arrival of Honour's sister, Mei Lian Chen (Stacy Liu), where Honour pretends that Dave has another job and tells Mei Lian that Dave has let her down many times, which he overhears, leading to Honour to "track him down" in order to fix the "mess" she has made with her "cruel words".
Honour had also been "determined" to find out why Flora had taken a restraining order against Dave before her death, which he revealed was because Flora was "controlling" and did not let him divorce her.
Things had been getting "increasingly tense" for the couple due to Honour knowing about the restraining order and Dave confronting Honour over her "ridiculous behaviour" over her sister's arrival, such as renting a car and not wanting to introduce Maxine to Mei Lan.
When Honour finds out that Mason has been harassing DeMarcus Westwood (Tomi Ade), she is "determined" to figure out what is going on with Mason, whilst Dave tries to "ignore the whole problem".
Honour and Dave are then "rocked" by the discovery that Eric Foster (Angus Castle-Doughty) has drawn their youngest child, Mason, into radicalised misogyny, leading to Mason joining incel online chatrooms and spreading hatred online and in person.
Chok said that it is the family's biggest challenge and it tears them apart, with Dave and Honour having no answers, and that she enjoyed being part of the storyline as she found it "clever" that it explored the attitudes of men towards the treatment of women in society, as it showed that more men, such as Tony and Dave, need educating.
Chok told Inside Soap how it is "horrifying" for Honour to see what her "baby boy" has been posting on the forums and that she wants to "rescue" her son both from what he has been exposed to online, but also from the police.
Chok explained that "Mason doesn't realise how dangerous Eric is and what he is capable of, he doesn't see there could be consequences from all this online hatred.
[Honour] asks herself: 'Is Mason going to be dragged down because of all this?
Is his life going to be ruined?
Could he get arrested because of his association with Eric?' Chok noted that whilst Honour cannot understand why Mason has gone down this route, she does not blame him because "as a psychologist" she knows that "people get swept along with things".
Before Honour found out about Mason's involvement, Chok speculated that it would be "horrific" when Honour finds out and that she would blame herself or Dave, and that it would be "humiliating" for her professionally as "it's her job to spot these things".
Chok explained that Honour "fears" that this is entirely her fault as she had suspected "for months" that something was up with Mason, but had been in a "difficult position" as she did not want to be "too heavy-handed with her parenting" and also wanted to respect Dave, who had not taken it seriously.
When Mason had told Honour that he felt lonely and uncool in comparison to his school peers, Chok felt that Honour did not really listen due to it being too painful for her to hear, and that when Honour suspected something was up, she suggested family time and therapy, but that did not happen as "life got in the way".
Honour and Dave's reluctance to go to the police about Mason's behaviour angers Lizzie and Serena, with the sisters rejecting Honour's suggestion of trying to work things out.
Honour defends Mason and says that his downfall is all due to Eric, and she goes to support him when Mason is summoned to the police station for questioning, which angers Serena.
Chok noted that Honour cannot ignore that she has "two daughters living with a potentially dangerous misogynist".
Chok believed that audience would be "shouting at the screen" for Dave and Honour to stop being so stupid and to listen to their children.
Serena eventually accepts that her parents will not stop giving Mason support, but decides to secretly leave the house, which was used for Serena's departure after Lau left the soap in late 2022, with Serena being the first member of the Chen-Williams family to leave.
When Honour finds out that someone in Mason's school has launched a petition to get Mason kicked out of Hollyoaks High, which leads to Honour "ambushing" Eric by visiting him in prison, hoping that he can "give her the insight she needs" to help Mason.
Eric is not pleased to see her but Honour makes it clear that she is only to "get the answers she needs" to help Mason due to being "out of options" in her "quest" to help Mason.
Eric causes trouble by telling Honour that she is the cause of her family's issues, causing her to risk losing "everything" when she lashes out and slaps Eric.
Honour then loses her job at the prison.


Further marital problems

In September 2022, viewers on Twitter started speculating that there "something going on" between Dave and Diane, though the theory did not materialise into a storyline.
Chok "added fuel" to the fan theory when she posted a picture on Instagram of Dave and Honour waving flags supporting Tony Hutchinson's (Nick Pickard), Diane's husband and Eric's half-brother, council election bid, where she wrote that she had enjoyed filming the scenes but also asked "is Dave getting too cosy with Diane??
Eeeeeeek!"

In February 2023, Chok teased a possible split for Honour and Dave, saying, "When you introduce a happy family on Hollyoaks, you know it won't last", and noted how Dave had not been "supportive" with Honour losing her job, Serena moving away and the issues with Mason.
Mason's behaviour had also caused tension between her and Dave.
Dave proposes to Honour, which Chok said puts "Honour in a tough spot as she cares about him and loves Dave, but the problems remain", and noted that "Dave proposed because he saw someone else do it – it wasn't even an original idea".
Dave and Honour then have a "big" argument when Dave overhears Honour revealing her doubts to Grace Black (Tamara Wall), which leads to Honour telling Dave her true feelings about getting married, leaving the relationship "hanging in the balance".
Chok noted that Honour would not have brought this up if Dave had not heard her conversation with Grace, and that Honour does not want to hurt Dave but does have some "suppressed emotions".
In April 2023, things take an "unexpected turn" when Honour shares a "shock kiss" with Tony.
Honour has previously confided in Tony, who is also going through a difficult time, that Dave's lies have made her question if she still loves him.
Tess Lamacraft from What To Watch wrote that Honour's marriage is "clearly under huge strain" and that Honour is trying to be a "shoulder to cry on", but suggested that Honour was getting too friendly with Tony.
Whilst attempting to try to fix between Honour and Dave during a double date night, Tony accidentally reveals one of Honour's secrets by suggesting that she and Dave can "fall in love again", which results in Dave calling Honour a "hard faced cow".
Tony and Diane try to help the couple again but fail, so Tony goes to Honour's house, where he finds her drinking and saying that she never loved Dave.
After Tony suggests ending things with Dave if he does not appreciate her and then starts talking about his own marital problems, Honours misreads the signs and kisses him, though he pulls away.


Departure
In the episode that originally aired on 14 April 2023 on Channel 4, Honour made an unannounced exit, becoming the second member of the Chen-Williams family to leave the soap.
In the storyline, Honour, who is struggling to forgive Dave for his lies, finds out that her application for a lecturer job in London has been successful, and she decides to take the position for a fresh start.
She hopes to take Mason and Shing Lin with her, but they refuse, leading her to reconsider her decision, although they persuade her to go ahead, and Honour shares her goodbyes with the family.
Following her exit, Chok confirmed that it was official and uploaded a video on Twitter where she thanked fans for supporting Honour and being "so kind", adding "It's been so great.
I mean all the love and I've met such incredible people." She also said that she had "great" experiences and had learnt a lot about herself and the show business.
Chok and Hollyoaks also posted another video in which she described her favourite scenes as Honour, which included where Honour got to throw and smash things, and when Honour is surprised by Mercedes McQueen (Jennifer Metcalfe), who she had just been talking about, which Chok found humorous.
Following Honour's departure, Dave spirals "out of control" and begins to pester Honour via "disturbing" text messages, telling her that she walked out on the family, which leads Honour to ask him to leave her alone, which Dave responds to by texting her that he wishes that they had never met.


Storylines
Honour starts her job as a psychologist at Longmere Prison and is assigned to speak to Warren Fox (Jamie Lomas), who has been arrested for the murder of Timmy Simons (Sam Tutty).
Warren admits to her that he did not kill Timmy, but did kill his best friend.
Honour figures out that this was Brody Hudson (Adam Woodward), and things are complicated when the transcript between her and Warren is stolen from her house.
When celebrating Christmas with her family at The Dog in the Pond, Honour reassures Serena, who is feeling guilty that the family moved to Hollyoaks because of her competition, that moving was a group decision and that she is enjoying her new job at the prison.
Honour is surprised when she finds out that Dave's long lost daughter, Maxine Minniver (Nikki Sanderson), lives in Hollyoaks, and learns that Dave blackmailed Warren, Maxine's boyfriend, over his secret to stop him from telling Honour and their children.
Honour encourages Dave to get to know Maxine, but Honour's relationship with Serena is strained when she learns that Honour already knew about Dave's secret daughter.
Honour encourages her children to see things from Dave's point of view.
Honour celebrates Lunar New Year with her family, telling Diane Hutchinson (Alex Fletcher) that she started celebrating it when Mason was born so that he could be celebrate it as Serena had celebrated it with her father.
Honour struggles making friends in the village, but she eventually becomes friends with Cindy Cunningham (Stephanie Waring), who had supported Honour and Serena when they faced racist comments from Becky Quentin (Katie McGlynn).
Mercedes McQueen (Jennifer Metcalfe) seeks out Honour's help with her son, Bobby Costello (Jayden Fox), who has been behaving strangely.
Honour tries to share her concerns with Mercedes but she does not take it well, telling Honour to stay out of her business.
Honour later witnesses Mercedes lashing out at Bobby and considers reporting her concerns to social services.
A strain is put on Honour and Dave's marriage when it is revealed that Dave's deceased wife, Flora, had received a restraining order against him years ago.
With Mason going through an "identity crisis", Honour calls her sister Mei Lian Chen (Stacy Liu) and brother in law Meng Chye Leong (Nicholas Goh) to help him, and they arrive in Hollyoaks with their daughter, Shing Lin Leong (Izzie Yip).
During the visit, Honour asks Dave to keep Maxine away from her sister's family and gets Dave to lie about his occupation.
Dave overhears Honour telling Mei Lian that Dave has let her down many times, which upsets him.
Honour goes to find him to fix things, where he reveals that Flora had refused to grant him a divorce, meaning that he was still married to Flora when he wed Honour, making their marriage invalid.
Honour is devastated that her marriage is not legal.
Shing Lin moves in with Honour and her family when it is revealed that her parents can no longer afford to send her to private school due to having lost their savings in a scam.
Honour and Dave find out that Mason has been indoctrinated into a misgognistic chatroom by Eric Foster (Angus Castle-Doughty), who has harmed several of Mason's sisters, and that Mason has shared inappropriate pictures of his classmates on there.
Honour and Dave's reluctance to tell Sam or the police about Mason's behaviour causes a rift between them and Serena and Lizzie, which leads to Serena leaving Hollyoaks.
Not knowing what to do, Honour visits Eric in prison, hoping to get answers to help her son.
However, Eric taunts her and tells her that Honour is the cause of the issues, leading to her to slap him.
Honour is subsequently fired from Longmere Prison.
Dave asks Honour to remarry him and despite initially saying yes, she changes her mind.
Their marital problems worsen, so Diane and her husband, Tony Hutchinson (Nick Pickard) attempt to help them reconcile.
Honour admits to Tony that she does not think that her relationship with Dave will work out and tries to kiss him.
She then finds out that her job application as a lecturer of Psychology in a London University has been successful.
Dave finds out about the kiss and Honour tells him that she is leaving him for London, before telling her family.
Honour assures Mason that she is not leaving because of him.
She believes that Shing Lin and Mason will come with her, but they decide to stay with Dave.
Honour apologies to Tony and Diane, telling them that she has been unhappy for a while and needs some space from Dave, before saying a final goodbye to her family and leaving Hollyoaks.
Dave spirals following Honour's departure and harasses her via text.
When she asks him to leave her alone, he says that he wishes he had never laid eyes on her.
Later that year, Honour's stepsons, Sam Chen-Williams (Matthew McGivern), stays with her in London when he temporarily leaves the village.


Reception
The Chen-Williams were initially popular with viewers.
The family was longlisted for "Best Family" in the 2022 Inside Soap Awards, but they did not make shortlist.
The official website of 2:22 A Ghost Story noted how Honour was the "head of the first ever East Asian family in a UK continuing drama".
Stephen Patterson from Metro thought that Honour's exit scenes were emotional, writing "No, you're crying", and noted how Honour walked through "the famous archway".
Daniel Kilkelly from Digital Spy also called Honour's departure scenes "emotional" and praised the Sinophobia scenes, describing them as "powerful" for Honour and Serena, as well as praising the "more diverse storytelling" such as the celebration of Lunar New Year.
He also praised the "electrifying scenes" where Honour and the rest of her family deal with the revelation of Mason's behaviour in the radical misogyny storyline, writing that the family "came to life" and that the actors "clearly relished the opportunity they'd been given" and helped give the storyline the "strong aftermath that it deserved".
However, following Honour's departure, Kilkelly wrote that Hollyoaks had "failed" the Chen-Williams family due to problems with the writing.
He cited Honour's link to Warren as his prison psychologist was one of the reasons that the Chen-Williams family initially had storyline potential, but that afterwards the show's "commitment" to the family started to "wane", writing that "Honour's link to Warren was abandoned early in her time on the show.
While she was often then shown playing a supporting role in other people's storylines, she has now left the village feeling largely unexplored as a character in her own right." He also cited the storyline where Honour discovered Dave's bigamy as an unsuccessful revelation due to the plot being "difficult to follow" due to the gaps in broadcasting the storyline, which Kilkelly called "frustrating" and a "major problem which haunts Hollyoaks in general at the moment" and wrote that it risked the audience forgetting what had happened when the storylines resumed on screens.
Kilkelly concluded by saying that the family has "talented" portrayers and that it was not their fault that the "storytelling" had problems.
Kilkelly's colleague, Stephanie Chase, wrote that the family had "suffered" two cast exits.


Notes


References

Pararcte
Pararcte is a genus of moths of the family Noctuidae.
The genus was erected by George Hampson in 1926.


Species
Pararcte immanis (Walker, 1858) Dominican Republic
Pararcte schneideriana (Stoll, [1782]) Suriname


References

Union Carbide Productions
Union Carbide Productions was a Swedish rock band formed by Ebbot Lundberg (vocals), Patrik Caganis, Björn Olsson, Per Helm and Henrik Rylander in 1986.
Though never really commercially successful, the band has received praise from artists like Kurt Cobain, R.E.M.
and Sonic Youth.
After the success of the members' subsequent group The Soundtrack of Our Lives, a compilation CD was released in 2004.


History
In 1981 Ebbot Lundberg met Patrik Caganis at a U.K.
Subs gig.
They shared a common musical taste in hardcore music, and the friendship that followed produced the forming of a punk band Sure Tråkings Trio.
After a few years Sure Tråkings Trio disbanded and Patrik Caganis spent a year as an exchange student in Minneapolis, USA.
It was during this time that he found musical inspiration by attending gigs to see bands such as Hüsker Dü, The Replacements and Soul Asylum.
In 1986, Ebbot Lundbergs friend Emrik Larsson had tried out as a singer for a band called Heartbeat City.
Emrik, (who was also the singer of the domestically famous Swedish funkrockband Stonefunkers), did not want to stay in the band, and instead suggested that Ebbot Lundberg should audition.
Patrik Caganis, a Heartbeat City fan, decided to team up with Lundberg and they went to the audition together.
Heartbeat City then consisted of Björn Olsson on guitar and Henrik Rylander on the drums.
The audition and jams that followed proved to work out well, fitting in Caganis' guitars with Olssons' and adding Lundbergs' improvised lyrics and melodies.
After a while Lundberg brought in long time friend Per Helm on bass, an addition that also proved to add to the groups evolving sound.
This line-up formed the first Union Carbide Productions.
They started writing songs, and on June the 14th 1986 they played their live debut.
It took place at the "Save the Forest" festival in Gothenburg.
The gig resulted in an amplifier hitting someone's head, and a crowd of skate punk friends creating chaos, a phenomenon that would set the key for many of their gigs to come.
At the end of 1986 the band recorded three songs at Music-a-Matic Studio in Gothenburg: "Financial Declaration", "Summer Holiday Camp" and "So Long".
Since they had no record deal, the band paid for the sessions themselves.
They sent a demotape to Carl Abrahamsson, the then editor of underground fanzine Lollipop, who liked the band so much that he got Financial Declaration distributed on a flexi-disc that was sold along with the fanzine.
In the spring of 1987, the band signed a record deal with the independent label Radium 226.5.
The same year they released their first album, In The Air Tonight.
One of the people running the company, Carl Michael von Hausswolff claims that "At that time nobody else was doing what they were into, and having a reputation as spoiled rich kids with outrageous behavior didn't exactly help them make friends with the media or the music biz.
A lot was exaggerated, but not all."
Later the same year, they played at the Swedish festival Hultsfredsfestivalen.
In 1988, UCP continued touring in Sweden and also played some gigs abroad.
One of the more notable venues was CBGB's in New York where they were the opening act for another band.
Before going to USA, Per Helm (bass) was replaced by Adam Wladis—a former bandmate of Henrik Rylander's.
During the tour, UCP continued to build on their reputation as a crazy live act.
Before recording their next album, Financially Dissatisfied, Philosophically Trying, Adam Wladis quit and was replaced by earlier band member Per Helm.
During those years, the band line-up changed a lot.
In 1989 they settled and appeared in their final incarnation, consisting of: Ebbot Lundberg, Patrik Caganis, Henrik Rylander, Jan Skoglund, Ian Person and occasionally Christian Martinius on saxophone.
Some of the band's material was produced by Henryk Lipp—a Swedish producer who has worked with Millencolin, Thåström, Ocal Waltz, Stonefunkers and Blue For Two.
The band recorded their last album, Swing, in 1992 in Chicago, and it was recorded by Steve Albini.
UCP split up in December 1993.
Ebbot Lundberg, Ian Person and Björn Olsson later went on to form the more commercially successful band The Soundtrack of Our Lives.
In 2003, they made a temporary reunion and returned to Hultsfredsfestivalen, sixteen years after their first appearance there.
The band's entire back catalogue was re-mastered and re-released on vinyl in a limited edition of 500 each by Ebbot Lundberg in 2013.


Band name
The name Union Carbide Productions originates from the company name Union Carbide Corporation that was written on a battery that Björn Olsson had, and that was involved in the Bhopal disaster in 1984.


External links
Article on Union Carbide Productions History
Official web site – redirects to their official Myspace site
Member information and releases at Discogs.com
Brief history and musical description at MNW record label (in Swedish)
Reunion concert review at Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet (in Swedish)
Photos from reunion concert at Rockfoto.nu
Internet Archive cached copy (Oct 25, 2004) of biography from unioncarbideproductions.com

Jiro (given name)
Jirō or Jiro (じろう, ジロウ) is a stand-alone Japanese given name along with "Tarō", and a common name suffix for males.


Written forms
Jirō can be written using different kanji characters and can mean:

次郎, "next, son"
次朗, "next, melodious"
二郎, "second, son"
二朗, "second, melodious"
治郎, "reign, son"
The name can also be written in hiragana or katakana.


People
Jiro (musician) (born 1972), bassist of the Japanese rock band GLAY
Jiro Aichi (治郎, born 1969), Japanese politician
Jirō Akagawa (次郎, born 1948), Japanese novelist
Jiro Akama (二郎, born 1968), Japanese politician
Jiro Ando (慈朗), Japanese manga artist
Jirō Asada (次郎, born 1951), Japanese novelist
Jiro Hirokawa (廣川 二郎), Japanese engineer
Jiro Horikoshi (二郎, 1903–1982), chief engineer behind many Japanese fighters of WWII
Jiro Hosotani (細谷 治朗; born 1950), Japanese weightlifter
Jiro Kamiharako (次郎, born 1966), Japanese ski jumper
Jiro Kikkawa (1929–2016), Japanese Australian ornithologist
Jiro Manio (born 1992), Filipino actor
Jiro Nakano (二郎, 1902–2000), Japanese composer
Jiro Ogawa (小川 次郎; born 1939), Japanese ice hockey player
Jiro Okabe (岡部 次郎; 1864–1925), Japanese politician
Jiro Ono (chef) (born 1925), chef and owner of Sukiyabashi Jiro, a three-Michelin-starred restaurant
Jiro Ono (politician) (born 1953), Japanese politician of Your Party
Jiro Saito (voice actor) (斉藤 次郎), Japanese voice actor
Jiro Saito (businessman) (斎藤 次郎; born 1936), Japanese businessman
Jiro Wang (born 1981), Taiwanese actor and singer


Characters
Jiro (Blue Dragon) (ジーロ), a character in the Blue Dragon video game
Jiro (Kamen Rider) (次狼) or Garulu (ガルル), a supporting character in the Kamen Rider Kiva tokusatsu series
Jiro (Kikaider) (ジロー), the main protagonist in the Android Kikaider tokusatsu series
Jiro Mochizuki, main protagonist in Black Blood Brothers
Jiro Ueda (次郎), the main character in Trick TV series
Jiro Shirogane, fantasy persona of Takashi "Shiro" Shirogane in Voltron: Legendary Defender
Jiro Yamada  (山田 二郎), the second child of the team called Buster Bros!!!
from Hypnosis Mic: Division Rap Battle
Jiro Yamashita (山下次郎), an idol from The Idolmaster SideM


Other uses
Jiro (ジロ), the famed Sakhalin Husky of the 1958 Japanese Antarctica expedition, depicted in the 1983 Japanese film Nankyoku Monogatari; see Taro and Jiro
Erlang Shen 二郎神 Chinese god

Zlatko Bonev
Zlatko Ivaylov Bonev (Bulgarian: Златко Ивайлов Бонев; born 8 April 1994) is a Bulgarian retired footballer, who plays as a midfielder.


Career


Ludogorets Razgrad
Bonev joined the reserve team of Ludogorets for their first season in B group.
After two matches he was called up to the 1st team.
On 23 September 2015 he made his debut for Ludogorets first team in a match against Lokomotiv 1929 Mezdra for the Bulgarian Cup, won by Ludogorets by 5:0, but at the end of the year he was released from the team.


Lokomotiv 2012 Mezdra
On 19 February 2016 it was announced that Bonev had joined the B Group team Lokomotiv 2012 Mezdra.


Club statistics
As of 8 December 2015


References


External links
Zlatko Bonev at Soccerway

Lorenzo Dow Mayes
Lorenzo Dow Mayes (September 12, 1847 – October 25, 1925) was an American lawyer.
He was an unsuccessful candidate for justice of the New York Supreme Court in 1908.
He was a candidate for Mayor of New York City in 1917 when he lost to John Francis Hylan.


Biography
He was born on September 12, 1847  in Lawrence County, Alabama to Patrick Henry Mayes and Mary Jane Thompson.
His family moved to Johnson County, Arkansas in 1859.
In 1861 they moved to Colorado County, Texas.
Sometime after 1887 Lorenzo moved to Poughkeepsie, New York.
He died on October 25, 1925.


References

Dress (disambiguation)
A dress is a garment consisting of a skirt with an attached bodice or with a matching bodice giving the effect of a one-piece garment.
Dress may also refer to:


Attire
Clothing in general
Costume, fancy dress
Standard diving dress, the old heavy canvas diving suit with a large metal helmet
To dress a set, in film or theater production


Music
Dress (Shizuka Kudo album), 1997
Dress (Sophie Villy album), 2014
"Dress" (PJ Harvey song), 1991
"Dress" (Buck-Tick song), 1993
"Dress" (Taylor Swift song), 2017


Surname
Andreas Dress (1938–2024), German mathematician
Evelyne Dress (born 1947), French actress


Other
Dress (film), 2023 short film set in Hawaii
DRESS syndrome, Drug Rash (or Reaction) with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms, also known as Drug Hypersensitivity Syndrome


See also
All pages with titles beginning with dress
All pages with titles containing dress
Dres (Polish subculture), a term used in Poland to describe a specific subculture or class of young males
Dresch, a French motorcycle manufacturer
The Dress (disambiguation)
Dressing (disambiguation)
Dresser (disambiguation)
Drees
List of individual dresses

Bill Findlay (writer)
Bill Findlay (11 June 1947 – 15 May 2005) was a Scottish writer, dramatist and theatre academic.
As a translator, editor, critic and advocate, he made an important contribution to Scottish theatre.
He worked as a lecturer in the School of Drama at Edinburgh's Queen Margaret University and was a founder editor and regular contributor to the Scottish and international literature, arts and affairs magazine, Cencrastus.
Born in Culross in Fife, Findlay attended Dunfermline High School and left home in 1965 to work as a civil servant in London.
He returned to Scotland in 1970 to attend Newbattle Abbey College, spending two years there before going on to Stirling University, where he graduated with a first class honours degree in English in 1976.
His career in writing began when he won the McCash prize for poetry.
For the first issue of  Cencrastus, in 1979, Findlay interviewed Margaret Atwood on the relationship of Canadian writers and writing to the 'Imperial Cultures' of America and Britain.


Drama

In 1980, Findlay and Martin Bowman translated Michel Tremblay's Les Belles Sœurs into contemporary Scots as The Guid Sisters.
Michael Boyd produced their adaptation for Glasgow's Tron Theatre in 1989 and it went on to play in Toronto in 1990 and at the Centaur Theatre in Montreal in 1992 as part of the British contribution to the city's 350th anniversary celebrations.
It was revived by the National Theatre of Scotland and the Royal Lyceum Theatre, Edinburgh, in 2012.
In his review of the play, Andrew Latimer wrote "When Martin Bowman and Bill Findlay first translated Tremblay's text into fierce Glasgow-Scots, with all the care and political attentiveness required to succeed, something vibrant, globally resonant and deeply sociological was unlocked.
While still situated in the realm of francophone Canada, the language couldn't be closer to our own doorstep."
In the years following the première of The Guid Sisters, Bowman and Findlay translated seven other Tremblay plays into Scots: Hosanna, The Real Wurld?
(Tron, 1991); The House Among the Stars (Traverse Theatre and Perth Theatre, 1992); Forever Yours, Marie-Lou (LadderMan Productions for the Tron, 1994); Albertine in Five Times (Clyde Unity, 1998); Solemn Mass for a Full Moon in Summer (Traverse Theatre and the Barbican, 2000); and If Only...
(Royal Lyceum Theatre, 2003).
The Tron Theatre took The Real Wurld?
to the Stony Brook International Theatre Festival on Long Island, New York in 1991.
John Corbett has described this body of work as making an 'honorable addition' to a long tradition of translating literature in a variety of languages into Scots.
Jennifer Harvie has explored the cultural and political ramifications of the intercultural exchange represented by the translation of Tremblay's work in joual into Scots.
Findlay and Bowman translated other works by Quebecois playwrights including Jeanne-Mance Delisle's The Reel of the Hanged Man (Stellar Quines, 2000).
In November 2005, Michel-Marc Bouchard's The Skelfs was given a rehearsed reading at the Traverse Theatre as a memorial tribute to Findlay.
On his own, Findlay undertook a number of Scots translations and adaptations, including Gerhart Hauptmann's The Weavers (Dundee Rep, 1997), Pavel Kohout's Fire in the Basement (Communicado, 1998), Teresa Lubkiewicz's Werewolves (Theatre Archipelago, 1999) and Raymond Cousse's Bairn's Brothers (Mull Little Theatre, 2000),.
Findlay was awarded a PhD in 2000 and held a readership in the School of Drama and Creative Industries at Queen Margaret University College, Edinburgh.
He edited and contributed the first chapter to A History of Scottish Theatre (1998).
He also edited Scots Plays of the Seventies (2001), Frae Ither Tongues: Essays on Modern Translations into Scots (2004), and (with John Corbett) Serving Twa Maisters: An Anthology of Scots Translations of Classic Plays (2005).
After his death in 2005, Queen Margaret University School of Drama established a Bill Findlay Fellowship in Stage Translation in his memory.
In June 2023, the Association for Scottish Literature published two volumes of plays by Michel Tremblay, translated into Scots by Martin Bowman and Bill Findlay.


Bibliography
Interview with Margaret Atwood, in Cencrastus No.
1, Autumn 1979, pp.
2 – 6, ISSN 0264-0856
Clydebuilt, reviews of 7:84 Theatre Company, Scotland, Clydebuilt: A Season of Scottish Popular Theatre from the '20s, '30s and '40s; Joe Corrie, In Time o' Strife; and Ena Lamont Stewart, Men Should Weep, in Hearn, Sheila G.
(ed.), Cencrastus No.
10, Autumn 1982, p.
39, ISSN 0264-0856
The Articulate Scott, review of The Language of Walter Scott by Graham Tulloch, in Hearn, Sheila G.
(ed.), Cencrastus No.
10, Autumn 1982, pp.
40 & 41, ISSN 0264-0856
Celtic Omphalos, a review of Translations by Brian Friel, in Hearn, Sheila G.
(ed.), Cencrastus No.
12, Spring 1983, pp.
43 & 44, ISSN 0264-0856
Interview with John Updike, in Cencrastus No.
15, New Year 1984, pp.
30 – 36, ISSN 0264-0856
Order, Order!, a review of Order and Space and Society: Architectural Form and its Context in the Scottish Enlightenment edited by Thomas A.
Markus, in Hearn, Sheila G.
(ed.), Cencrastus No.
16, Spring 1984, pp.
49 & 50, ISSN 0264-0856
At the Shrine of the Thistle, an interview with Eric Marwick, in Lawson, Alan (ed.), Radical Scotland Aug/Sept 1985, pp.
30 & 31, ISSN 0262-6993
7:84's Scottish Popular Play Series, in Lawson, Alan (ed.), Radical Scotland Oct/Nov 1985, pp.
30 & 31, ISSN 0262-6993
Fun in the Gorbals, in Lawson, Alan (ed.), Radical Scotland Dec/Jan 1986, p.
31, ISSN 0262-6993
Diaskeuasts of the Omnific Word, in Parker, Geoff (ed.), Cencrastus No.
23, June - August 1986, pp.
48 – 52, ISSN 0264-0856
Elegiac Action, reviews of Freeman, F.W.
(1984), Robert Fergusson and the Scots Humanist Compromise; Fergusson, Robert, Auld Reekie, The Scream Press, 1984; and McClure, J.
Derick (ed.) (1984), Scotland and the Lowland Tongue, in Parker, Geoff (ed.), Cencrastus No.
23, June - August 1986, pp.
57 – 60, ISSN 0264-0856
Michel Tremblay, The Guid-Sisters, (Les Belles Sœurs translated into Scots by Bill Findlay and Martin Bowman), Exile Editions, 1988, ISBN 9780920428177
Interview with Michel Tremblay, in Cencrastus No.
32, New Year 1989, pp.
30 – 33, ISSN 0264-0856
Talking in Tongues: Scottish Translations 1970 - 1995, in Stevenson, Randall and Wallace, Gavin (eds.), Scottish Theatre since the Seventies, pp.
186 – 197, Edinburgh University Press, 1996, ISBN 0-7486-0781-1
A History of Scottish Theatre,(Editor), Polygon, 1998, ISBN 9780748662203
Scots Plays of the Seventies, (Editor), Scottish Cultural Press, 2001, ISBN 9781840170283
Frae Ither Tongues: Essays on Modern Translations into Scots, Multilingual Matters Limited, 2004, ISBN 9781847695574
"The Founding of a Modern Tradition: Robert Kemp's Scots translations of Molière at the Gateway", in Brown, Ian (ed.) (2004), Journey's Beginning: the Gateway Theatre Building and Company, 1884 - 1965, Intellect Ltd., Bristol, ISBN 978-1841501086
(with John Corbett) Serving Twa Maisters: An Anthology of Scots Translations of Classic Plays, Association for Scottish Literary Studies, 2005, ISBN 9780948877643
"Performances and Plays", in Clancy, Thomas Owen & Pittock, Murray (eds.) (2007), The Edinburgh History of Scottish Literature, Volume 1: From Columba to the Union (until 1707), Edinburgh University Press, ISBN 9780748616152
Scottish People's Theatre: Plays by Glasgow Unity Writers, (Editor), Association for Scottish Literary Studies, 2008, ISBN 9780948877780
Michel Tremblay, Solemn Mass for a Full Moon in Summer, (Messe solennelle pour une pleine lune d'été translated into Scots by Bill Findlay and Martin Bowman), 2017, Nick Hern Books, ISBN 9781780018461


References

Nordic skiing at the 1948 Winter Olympics
At the 1948 Winter Olympics, five Nordic skiing events were contested: three cross-country skiing events, one ski jumping event, and one Nordic combined event, all for men only.
Martin Lundström of Sweden won the 18 km in cross-country skiing.
Nils Karlsson of Sweden won the 50 km.
The Swedes, consisting of Nils Östensson, Gunnar Eriksson, Martin Lundström, and Nils Täpp, won the 4x10 km relay.
Petter Hugsted of Norway won the large hill ski jump.
Heikki Hasu of Finland won the Nordic combined.


References

Rolando Cantú
Rolando Roel Cantú (born February 25, 1981) is a Mexican former American football player who was a tackle for the Arizona Cardinals of the National Football League (NFL).
He was the first Mexican football player trained in the Mexican collegiate system to become an active NFL player.
Today, he is a broadcaster and promoter of the Cardinals and NFL in Mexico and U.S.
Spanish media, working to develop talent in Mexico with camps and clinics for young people.


Early life
Rolando Cantú was born on February 25, 1981, in Monterrey, Mexico, the youngest of seven children.
While Cantú was still young, the family moved to border town Reynosa in neighbor state of Tamaulipas, so he could attended grade school at the U.S.
town of McAllen, Texas, driven across the border every day.
He grew up a fan of the Dallas Cowboys, watching games with his father on TV as the NFL has begun broadcasting games in the country's local stations.

He played various sports including American football with neighborhood friends as well as in Pop Warner, which Cantú recalls saying it's taken seriously in Mexico.
He always was bigger than other kids his age, and had to show his birth certificate when signing up for baseball and football teams because of his size.
Eventually, he decided he was too big and rough for soccer.
Because of age and talent, he didn't needed to work like his siblings at his father's meat market .
In junior high school, he was on the team but did not plan originally on a career in sports, figuring he would work for his father at a latter date.
But on his first day at McAllen High School, the school's defense coach asked why he hadn't  joined the football team.
Cantú replied that he wanted to earn money to buy a car, but the coach didn't accepted it, ordering practice that very day.
Cantú took football more seriously at his sophomore year, and when he achieved junior moved to the offensive line.
At age fifteen, he decided that he would play someday in the NFL.


College career
Colleges like Texas Tech, Texas A&M, Miami (Fla.) and Oklahoma were among 40 schools that noticed him during his high school days and began to attempt to recruit him.
However, he decided that he did not want to play college football in the United States.
Instead, Cantú accepted a scholarship to play college football at the Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Studies in Mexico, a member of the ONEFA.
At that time, college football was a seven-year commitment, divided into three playing levels.
Cantú, because of his size and talent was able skip the two lower levels and start as an 18-year-old at the highest level.
He initially gained fame in Mexico with his stint with the Borregos Salvages (Wild Rams).
Monterrey Tech won the 1999 national title during Cantú's first season, the first of four Mexican championship games during his time at Monterrey Tech.
In 2000, Cantú decided to attend Texas A&M University-Kingsville as a foreign exchange student.
In the spring and summer of 2001, he trained with their team with the aim of playing NCAA Division II football in the fall.
Despite his obvious talent, the school did not offer him a scholarship, rather a loan.
He turned this down as he still had the full scholarship at Monterrey Tech.
He took a break from school for the 2001 season, spending the fall semester with his parents.
Cantú returned to Monterrey Tec in 2002 with more confidence having competed at the US college level and well.
He and the school won another national championship in 2002 before losing in 2003.
With age and experience, Cantu finds it curious and even a little regrettable to take that offer over colleges in the United States.


Professional career
His eligibility to play Mexican collegiate sports ended in 2003.
There was an opportunity to try out for the NFL Europe league, but he almost did not make it.
He had an accident with a double trailer which totaled the car he was driving to a tryout for NFL Europe.
Under Mexican law, he should have stayed as the accident caused damage to city property.
However, he called his then-girlfriend (now wife Carmen Valenzuela) who got to the scene before the police and told him to go to the tryout.
She would take blame for the accident.
He showed up an hour late to the tryout, but it earned him a tryout for central NFL Europe and a training camp in Tampa.
He impressed in Tampa, earning a spot on the Berlin Thunder.
He played in nine games for the Thunder.
The day after the Berlin Thunder won the World Bowl XII, he signed with the Arizona Cardinals of the NFL.
As part of the NFL's first International Development Practice Squad, Cantú spent the 2004 season on the Cardinals practice squad.
was with the team two season, 2005 and 2006, Cantu made his first and only NFL game appearance on January 1, 2006, against the Indianapolis Colts.
that game, Cantú became the first Mexican player trained in the Mexican collegiate system to play professionally in the NFL.
Despite the importance of the game to Cantu personally, his family was not there to see it.
His wife was with their then 3-month old and he decided the trip to Indianapolis was too far.
He signed a one-year extension for 2006.
On the fourth day of training camp, he torn a cartilage in his right knee, stepping over a towel.
His meniscus needed micro fracture surgery, and he was put on injured reserve.
During his recuperation, the coaching staff of the team changed and he was released in July 2006.
He had to find a new team or retire, and chose the latter.


Post-football career
Fortunately, Cantú has an outgoing personality and does public relations well.
He became extremely popular with the Mexican and Mexican American communities on both sides of the border, with Mexican and other Spanish media covering his football career closely.
Former Monterrey Tech coach Leopoldo Treviño remembered Cantu as big, fast and very happy.
Offers to work with publicity agencies and promote products came soon after being recruited to the Cardinals.
He signed a contract with the JWM publicity agency in Mexico which focuses on sport, and Gatorade signed him as a spokesperson for the Spanish-speaking community.
Even after his short stint as an active player, he continued to be in demand for children's hospital visits.
Instead of simply letting him go, the Cardinal offered him a position in administration.
He is currently their manager of international business ventures and does commentary on the team's Spanish language radio broadcasts.
He has provided commentary not only on Cardinals’ games but also various Super Bowls and he helped to build the NFL's Spanish Radio Network.
Even before retiring, Cantú has worked to help other aspiring NFL players in Mexico, and has said that he does not want to be the last Mexican player in the league, starting football camps in Mexico as early as 2004.
He serves as a quasi-ambassador for the Cardinals and the rest of the NFL in Mexico, using his contacts in Mexican universities to scout for talent.
Since retiring, he has worked to set up summer football and cheerleading camps and clinics in various parts of Mexico, mostly in the north, working with the Cardinals, the NFL and his Rolando Cantú Foundation.
 The main goal is to find talent early and get the candidates college scholarships.
Some of the camps bring in talent from various NFL teams to camps in various parts of Mexico.
Mexico has become known for producing kickers but Cantu believes there is talent for other positions as well, it is just a matter of finding it.
He does not regret pursuing the NFL or the shift into the business side of football since the injury, stating  “I feel blessed.”


References


External links
Stats Crew
Arizona Cardinals staff bio
Cantu continues Cardinals career in front office

William Powell (Archdeacon of Chester)
William Powell (circa 1681 - 13 April 1751) was an eighteenth century British Anglican priest.
Powell was born around 1681 at Hampton Court.
He received his education at Eton and St John's College, Cambridge He held livings at Lambourn, Langwmdinmael and Llanyblodwel.
He served as the Dean of St Asaph from 1731 until his death in 1751, and as the Archdeacon of Chester from his installation on 22 April 1747 until his death on 13 April 1751.


References

Mohammed Nayim Farouq
Mohammed Naim Farouq (born 1960) is a citizen of Afghanistan who was held in extrajudicial detention in the United States Guantanamo Bay detention camps, in Cuba.
His Guantanamo Internment Serial Number was 633.
Mohammed Naim Farouq is named on a "most wanted" poster issued by the Defense Intelligence Agency, and a press release entitled: "Ex-Guantanamo Detainees who have returned to the fight".


Identity
A former Guantanamo captive listed as Mohammed Nayim Farouq is named on the list of captives who returned to the battlefield, and on the full official list released on May 15, 2006.
A former Guantanamo captive listed as Mohammed Nayim Farouq is named on the most wanted list.
The most wanted list asserts he was born in 1960.
A former Guantanamo captive listed as Mohammed Nayim Farouq is named on the full official list of all the captives' names, released on May 15, 2006.
According to the list, his Guantanamo Internment Serial Number is 633.
The list reports that he was born in Zatoon Kahil, in 1960.


Aliases
The "most wanted" poster lists four aliases.

Mohammed Nayim,
Naim Farrouqi,
Commander Naim,
Commander Naim Khan


Alleged terrorist affiliation

The most wanted poster claims Farouq is affiliated to both the Taliban and al Qaeda.
It asserts he has been a Taliban militia leader.
On July 16, 2007, the Department of Defense issued a press release entitled: Ex-Guantanamo Detainees who have returned to the fight.
The press release stated:

After his release from US custody in July 2003, Farouq quickly renewed his association with Taliban and al-Qaida members and has since become re-involved in anti-Coalition militant activity.


McClatchy interview
On June 15, 2008, the McClatchy News Service published articles based on interviews with 66 former Guantanamo captives.
McClatchy reporters interviewed Farouq.
According to the McClatchy report, Farouq
was the leader of a gang of bandits prior to his capture and transport to Guantanamo, with no ties to al-Qaeda or the Taliban.
Abdul Jabar Sabit, 
Afghan Attorney General, interviewed Mohammed Naim Farouq
in Guantanamo, and characterized him as a "rural gangster".
Mohammed Naim Farouq, on the other hand, described himself as the leader of a kind of vigilante militia, who were trying to keep order in their region.
He said that he and his family clashed with the Taliban, during their regime, but, eventually they "realized that I am from a big tribe ...
so we came to an agreement."
The McClatchy report said Mohammed Naim Farouq became the head of Security for Zormat District, following the Taliban's ouster, noting: "It's not clear whether the new, U.S.-backed government appointed Farouq to that position or, more likely, whether he just had more guns than anyone else in the area." Mohammed Naim Farouq was apprehended after he confronted some American soldiers who had apprehended some of his men.
According to various Afghan officials, Farouq became a Taliban leader after his repatriation.
He however maintained, during his interview, that he was just trying to keep order in his region.
Mohammed Naim Farouq reported routine abuse and humiliation by his American captors.
He was not cooperative with his interrogators: "They asked me if I knew Osama bin Laden.
I said, 'Fuck bin Laden and fuck your wife, too.
Bin Laden came and destroyed our nation, and you came and destroyed our nation.
But at least bin Laden was a Muslim and did not humiliate us like this."
Farouq told McClatchy reporters that he had opposed the Taliban when they were in power and that his tribal militia had struggled with them, that his brother had been driven into exile.
Farouq described being taken into American custody after questioning American GIs when they had taken some of his men into custody—even though he had identified himself as the District's Police Commander.
Farouq described being repeatedly humiliated in the Kandahar detention facility and the Bagram Theater Detention Facility by being stripped naked: "they took me into interrogation completely naked.
They asked me if I knew Osama bin Laden.
I said, 'Fuck bin Laden and fuck your wife, too.
Bin Laden came and destroyed our nation, and you came and destroyed our nation.
But at least bin Laden was a Muslim and did not humiliate us like this." He described seeing an American soldier in Afghanistan throw a Koran into a bucket of excrement.


Accusations of Taliban and al-Qaeda associations
In May 2009, Elizabeth Bumiller of the New York Times, citing a leaked report leaked to her, asserted that Mohammed Naim Farouq had Taliban and Al Qaeda associations.
On May 26, 2009, the McClatchy News Service published a portion of their interview with Farouq.
In the interview he said everyone in his province had welcomed the Americans and that he was the first person captured in his province.
He said that the Hamid Karzai government had asked him to resume his job as District Chief, but that after years of humiliation while in US detention, he "had enough", and he declined.


References

Uthman ibn Abi al-As
Uthman ibn Abi al-As al-Thaqafi (Arabic: عثمان بن أبي العاص, romanized: ʿUthmān ibn Abī al-ʿĀṣ; died 671 or 675) was a companion of the Islamic prophet Muhammad from the tribe of Banu Thaqif and the governor of Bahrayn (eastern Arabia) and Oman (southeastern Arabia) in 636–650, during the reigns of caliphs Umar (r. 634–644) and Uthman (r. 644–656).
During his governorship he led military campaigns against the Sasanian Persians in Fars.
After his dismissal, he settled with his brothers in Basra where he was granted a large estate by the caliph.
He transmitted numerous hadiths to the scholar al-Hasan al-Basri and died in the city.


Early life and governorship of Ta'if
Uthman was a son of Abu al-As ibn Bishr ibn Abd ibn Duhman of the Banu Thaqif.
The Thaqif were the dominant tribe of the town of Ta'if in the Hejaz (western Arabia).
Uthman belonged to the prominent Banu Hutayt family of the Banu Jusham, which was one of two principal branches of the Thaqif.
Uthman had five brothers, al-Hakam, al-Mughira, Abu Umayya, Abu Amr—all of whom were sons of Uthman's mother Fatima bint Abd Allah—and Hafs.
According to a different account, Uthman's mother was Safiyya, a daughter of the founder of the Umayyad house, Umayya ibn Abd Shams.
Uthman's wife, Rayhana, belonged to the same house, being the daughter of Umayya's son Abu al-As.
Uthman was the youngest member of a six-man delegation of Thaqif representatives sent to establish peace with the Islamic prophet Muhammad on 9 December 630, shortly before the Muslim conquest of their city in 631.
The delegation embraced Islam during this meeting, though the 9th-century historians al-Waqidi and Umar ibn Shabba hold Uthman had already converted to Islam during a previous visit to Muhammad in Medina, but had kept it secret from his tribe.
Despite his youth, Muhammad declared Uthman governor of Ta'if.
His appointment stemmed from his apparent zeal in studying Islam and the Quran, as testified to Muhammad by Abu Bakr, the future first caliph (leader of the Muslim community).
Uthman's jurisdiction was over the settled inhabitants of Ta'if and its environs (the Hawazin nomads were governed by Malik ibn Awf al-Nasri) and he remained in the post at the time of Muhammad's death in 632.
He was the first member of the Thaqif to achieve prominence under Islam.
After the death of Muhammad, many Arab tribes rebelled against the nascent Muslim state.
Uthman played a key role maintaining the loyalty of the Thaqif to Islam.
During the Ridda wars launched by Abu Bakr against the rebel tribes, Uthman dispatched a force from Ta'if against rebel clans from the tribes of Azd, Bajila and Khath'am in Yemen (southwestern Arabia).
He later raised an army from the city under the command of his brother to assist Medina's war efforts.
Abu Bakr kept Uthman in his post as did his successor Caliph Umar.


Governor of Bahrayn and Oman
Uthman was appointed governor of Bahrayn (eastern Arabia) and Oman (southeastern Arabia) by Umar in 636, following the dismissal of al-Ala al-Hadhrami.
The province of the Yamama (central Arabia) was administratively attached to Bahrayn at the time.
Uthman was permitted by Umar to nominate his brother al-Hakam as his replacement in Ta'if.
Uthman dispatched naval expeditions against the ports and positions of the Sasanian Empire and further east to the borders of India.
The first Arab naval raids against the ports of the Indian subcontinent were carried out on the orders of Uthman.
According to the history of al-Baladhuri, the raids targeted Thane (near modern Mumbai), Debal and Bharuch.
The assault on Thane, the first Arab raid in India, was commanded by Uthman's brother al-Hakam and was a success, the Arabs returning to Oman without incurring any fatalities.
The following raid on Debal was commanded by another brother, al-Mughira.
Al-Hakam led the raid on Bharuch.
The raids were launched in c. 636 according to al-Baladhuri.
The modern historian Nabi Bakhsh Khan Baloch suspects that if the raids against the Indian coast were actually undertaken, they likely occurred in late 636.
The naval operations were launched without Umar's sanction and he disapproved of them upon learning of the operations, citing his fear for the safety of Arab troops at sea.
The contemporary Armenian historian Sebeos confirms these Arab raids against the Sasanian littoral.
According to Baloch, the reasons for Uthman's initiative are not identified by the medieval sources and were possibly zeal-driven adventures for the cause of jihad (holy struggle).
In 637 Uthman was recalled from Bahrayn by Umar and reappointed to Ta'if, likely as a consequence of his unilateral launch of naval raids against India.
He was restored to Bahrayn in 638 in the aftermath of an abortive naval raid by al-Ala against the Sasanian province of Fars, which ended in heavy Arab losses.
In 638–639 Uthman led in person a major assault  along the coast of Fars.
His brother al-Hakam accompanied him, while he left al-Mughira to oversee administrative affairs in Bahrayn as his deputy.
In 639 or 640, Uthman and al-Hakam captured and garrisoned Arab troops in the Fars town of Tawwaj near the Persian Gulf coast, southwest of modern Shiraz.
In 641 Uthman established his permanent headquarters at Tawwaj, which he fortified.
From Tawwaj in the same year, he captured the city of Reishahr and killed the Sasanian governor of Fars, Shahruk.
By 642 Uthman subjugated the cities of Jarreh, Kazerun and al-Nubindjan.
About 643, Uthman's forces were joined by Abu Musa al-Ash'ari, the Muslim governor of Basra, who had been fighting against the Sasanians on the Iraqi front.
Uthman retained overall command and together, they conquered Arrajan and the area of Shiraz, while Uthman conquered the city of Darabjird further east without Abu Musa.
These conquests occurred between 643 and 644.
Umar died in the latter year and was succeeded by Uthman ibn Affan, who retained Uthman in his post for about six more years.
Uthman was unable to capture the Sasanian strongholds of Istakhr and Jur (Firuzabad) in mountainous central Fars, which were conquered in 649 by the Muslim governor of Basra, Abd Allah ibn Amir.
In that year, Ibn Amir was given supreme command over the armies of Uthman and Abu Musa in Iran.


Later life, death and legacy
Uthman was dismissed by the caliph and retired to Basra after 650.
In February 650 he was granted by the caliph a large estate near the city, in al-Ubulla (Apologos) along the Euphrates river, from which he bestowed plots to each of his brothers to build on.
The canal dug on the estate was called Shatt Uthman after him.
Uthman died in Basra in 671, 672 or 675.
The prominent Islamic theologian and scholar al-Hasan al-Basri transmitted hadiths from Uthman during his time in Basra.
From a total of twenty-nine hadiths reportedly transmitted by Uthman, three have been recorded in the Sahih Muslim and the remainder in various hadith volumes.
A granddaughter of Uthman, Umm Muhammad bint Abd Allah ibn Uthman, was married to the general and governor of Khurasan, Salm ibn Ziyad.
During Salm's expedition in 681, she became known as the first Arab woman to cross the Oxus river into Transoxiana.


References


Bibliography
Ahmed, Asad Q.
(2010).
The Religious Elite of the Early Islamic Ḥijāz: Five Prosopographical Case Studies.
Oxford: University of Oxford Linacre College Unit for Prosopographical Research.
ISBN 978-1-900934-13-8.
Baloch, Nabi Bakhsh Khan (1946).
"The Probable Date of the First Arab Expeditions to India".
Islamic Culture.
20 (3): 250–266.
Baloch, Nabi Bakhsh Khan (1953).
"Muhammad ibn al-Qasim: A Study of His Family Background and Personality".
Islamic Culture.
1927 (4): 242–271.
Blankinship, Khalid Yahya, ed.
(1993).
The History of al-Ṭabarī, Volume XI: The Challenge to the Empires.
SUNY Series in Near Eastern Studies.
Albany, New York: State University of New York Press.
ISBN 978-0-7914-0851-3.
Donner, Fred M.
(1981).
The Early Islamic Conquests.
Princeton: Princeton University Press.
ISBN 0-691-05327-8.
Donner, Fred M., ed.
(1993).
The History of al-Ṭabarī, Volume X: The Conquest of Arabia, A.D.
632–633/A.H.
11.
SUNY Series in Near Eastern Studies.
Albany, New York: State University of New York Press.
ISBN 978-0-7914-1071-4.
Friedmann, Yohanan, ed.
(1992).
The History of al-Ṭabarī, Volume XII: The Battle of al-Qādisīyyah and the Conquest of Syria and Palestine.
SUNY Series in Near Eastern Studies.
Albany, New York: State University of New York Press.
ISBN 978-0-7914-0733-2.
Friedmann, Yohanan (1970).
"Minor Problems in al-Baladhuri's Account of the Conquest of Sind".
Rivista degli studi orientali.
45 (3): 253–260.
Poonawala, Ismail, ed.
(1990).
The History of al-Ṭabarī, Volume IX: The Last Years of the Prophet: The Formation of the State, A.D.
630–632/A.H.
8–11.
SUNY Series in Near Eastern Studies.
Albany, New York: State University of New York Press.
ISBN 978-0-88706-691-7.
Hoyland, Robert G.
(2015).
In God's Path: The Arab Conquests and the Creation of an Islamic Empire.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
ISBN 978-0-19-991636-8.
Howard, I.
K.
A., ed.
(1990).
The History of al-Ṭabarī, Volume XIX: The Caliphate of Yazīd ibn Muʿāwiyah, A.D.
680–683/A.H.
60–64.
SUNY Series in Near Eastern Studies.
Albany, New York: State University of New York Press.
ISBN 978-0-7914-0040-1.
Ishaq, Mohammad (1945).
"A Peep Into the First Arab Expeditions to India under the Companions of the Prophet".
Islamic Culture.
19 (2): 109–114.
Lecker, M.
(2000).
"Thakīf".
In Bearman, P.
J.; Bianquis, Th.; Bosworth, C.
E.; van Donzel, E.
& Heinrichs, W.
P.
(eds.).
The Encyclopaedia of Islam, Second Edition.
Volume X: T–U.
Leiden: E.
J.
Brill.
p.
432.
ISBN 978-90-04-11211-7.
Lecker, Michael (2016) [2005].
People, Tribes and Society in Arabia Around the Time of Muhammad.
Abingdon: Routledge.
ISBN 978-0-86078-963-5.

Scott Brooker
Scott Brooker is a British puppeteer, puppet maker, puppet designer.


Career
Scott Brooker has many television, theatre and film credits as a puppet maker and puppeteer.
One of his most well known work was for Spitting Image, where he spent thirteen years as head puppet maker.
After leaving Spitting Image, Brooker worked with Jim Henson's Creature Shop as a designer and fabricator working on many of their productions, including Alice in Wonderland and Five Children and It.
At the Creature Shop  Brooker also helped design the Monkey from PG and for Disney Channel's The Raoul Show.
Brooker has also designed many theatre productions, most notably David Wood's Guess How Much I Love You.
and A Christmas Carol.
As well as making puppets for commercials, films, television and theatre, Brooker also designed the lamb puppet to promote CLIC Sargent, a children cancer on charity.
 Brooker has also performed additional puppetry for the character of Rattus Rattus from Horrible Histories.
Brooker assisted John Eccleston (Rattus' main operator) in operating Rattus for all episodes of Gory Games, a Horrible Histories game show spin off.
Brooker is currently part of "Puppet Shack", a small organisation of puppet professionals (including Nigel Plaskitt, Guy Stevens, Paul Jomain and Jonathan Saville), who have worked for many TV, film and theatre productions.
He has also made puppets for the BBC programme That Puppet Game Show and recently designed puppets and creatures for The Harry Hill Movie.


Filmography
Spitting Image
The Harry Hill Movie
That Puppet Game Show
Peter and the Wolf: A Prokofiev Fantasy
Alice in Wonderland
Five Children and It
Round the Bend
Hi Five
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
Gory Games
Horrible Histories
Five Minutes More
The Raoul Show
The Winjin Pom
Get Fresh
Spitting Image Election Special
The Man With No Title


Theatre credits
A Christmas Carol
Guess How Much I Love You
Treasure Island
Dragon
Doctor Dolittle
Peter Pan
The Three Musketeers
Cinderella
Dick Whittington
Mother Goose
Aladdin
MOJO


References


External links
Scott Brooker at the Internet Movie Database
Puppet Shack Official Website

Emanuel Boekman
Emanuel ("Manus") Boekman (15 August 1889 – 15 May 1940) was a Dutch social democratic politician, statistician, demographer and typographer.
He is remembered for his activities as a municipal executive board member for education and culture (wethouder) in Amsterdam (1931-1933, 1935-1940) and his advocacy for an active state cultural policy.


Life

Boekman was born into a dynasty of Jewish booksellers as the eldest son of Maurits Boekman (1869-1942), initially a diamond cutter, and Heintje Peereboom.
At the age of twelve, he started working as a typographer.
He was interested in politics and became a chairman of his trade union, the Typografen Jongelingen Vereeniging (Young Typographer's Society).
Originally he was a follower of the early Dutch socialist Ferdinand Domela Nieuwenhuis.
Boekman's spare time was devoted to studying, and he qualified for various teacher's degrees, including of economics.
In 1911 Boekman obtained a position as head of the administration of the Amsterdam Harbour Authority and, in 1916, became head of the department for statistics of the Rijksverzekeringsbank (nl), a state insurance bank.
In this period, he became a prolific author on various subjects, ranging from statistics and economy to unemployment and alcoholism.
From 1921 up to his death in 1940, Boekman was a member of the Amsterdam city council for the Dutch Social Democratic Workers' Party (SDAP).
In 1931 he became a municipal executive board member (wethouder, alderman) for Amsterdam's education and culture.
On 6 June 1939, Boekman obtained his Ph.D.
degree from the University of Amsterdam supervised by professor H.N.
ter Veen.
His thesis "Overheid en kunst in Nederland" (Government and art in the Netherlands) investigated the 19th and 20th-century history of Dutch cultural policy and projected seminal plans for cultural dissemination by the state and municipalities, e.g., by incorporating art in new building projects and giving the working class access to art.
This thesis was influential and reprinted into the 1970s.
When the German army invaded the Netherlands in May 1940, Boekman initially stood by his principle that executives should not flee.
Later on, when he had changed his mind, the escape route via IJmuiden to the United Kingdom became intractable.
On capitulation day 15 May 1940, Boekman and his wife committed suicide together with their friends, the family of the social democrat professor Bob van Gelderen.


Boekman Foundation
In 1963 the Boekman Foundation (Dutch: Boekmanstichting) was established, named after him by the Federatie van Kunstenaarsverenigingen (Federation of artist's societies).
The Boekmanstichting is an independent center for the study of art, culture and policy.


References
E.
Boekman, 1889 - 1940 at the University of Amsterdam Album Academicum website


Sources
(in Dutch) Boekman, Emanuel: Overheid en kunst in Nederland, Thesis University of Amsterdam, 1939
(in Dutch) G.W.B.
Borrie, 'Boekman, Emanuel (1889-1940)', in Biografisch Woordenboek van Nederland.
(in Dutch) Van Dulken, Hans en Jansen, Tony (red.): Het leven als leerschool.
Portret van Emanuel Boekman, Amsterdam, 1989
(in Dutch) Jansen, Tony, Boekman, Emanuel, Biografisch woordenboek van het socialisme en de arbeidersbeweging in Nederland, op socialhistory.org maintained by the International Institute of Social History
(in Dutch) Jansen, Tony en Rogier, Jan: Kunstbeleid in Amsterdam, 1920-1940: Dr.
E.
Boekman en de socialistische gemeentepolitiek, Nijmegen, SUN, 1983.
(in English) Maas, Harro: A pragmatic intellectual.
Dutch Fabians, Boekman and cultural policy in the Netherlands, 1890-1940, International Journal of Cultural Policy 12(2006)2, 151-170
(in Dutch), C.
e.a.: Van Boekman tot Schimmelpennink.
De kleine geschiedenis van een boekhandel op de Weteringschans, 2003

George Wardrope
George Calvin Wardrope (November 2, 1899 – January 1, 1980) was a politician in Ontario, Canada.
He served as a Progressive Conservative member of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1951 to 1967.
He was a member of cabinet in the governments of Leslie Frost and John Robarts.


Background
He was born in Montreal, the son of John W.
Wardrope and educated at the University of Toronto.
Wardrope operated an insurance and real estate agency in Port Arthur.
He was also president of the Steep Rock Lumber Company and served on the city council for Port Arthur.
In 1947, he married Blanche Mabel Senbolt.


Politics
Wardrope was an unsuccessful candidate for the federal seat in 1935 and the provincial seat in 1948.
He was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as a Progressive Conservative for the northern Ontario riding of Port Arthur in the 1951 provincial election.
In December 1958, he was appointed to cabinet as Minister of Reform Institutions.
He was a candidate in the 1961 Progressive Conservative leadership  convention, placing last with 45 votes.
He was subsequently appointed to the Cabinet by the new Premier of Ontario, John Robarts as Minister of Mines.
He held this position until he was defeated in the 1967 election by radio broadcaster Ron Knight.
Knight defeated him by 810 votes.
Wardrope attempted to win a seat in the House of Commons of Canada in the 1968 federal election, but was defeated in the riding of Thunder Bay.
He placed third behind Liberal Keith Penner and the New Democratic Party candidate.
In 1969 he was elected to serve on the first City Council of the new city of Thunder Bay, which took office on January 1, 1970.


Cabinet positions


References


External links
Ontario Legislative Assembly parliamentary history

Chika (name)
Chika is a given name or a nickname.
It can be an Igbo given name or Japanese given name.
It may be neither.
Non-Igbo and Non-Japanese people using the name, include the following:


Given name
Chika Emeagi (born 1979), Australian women's basketball player
Sriranga Chika Raya or Sriranga II (died 1614), Indian monarch


Nickname
Chika (footballer), born Celso Cardoso de Moraes, (born 1979), Brazilian defender
Sisca Chika Jessica (born 1988), Indonesian actress


See also
All pages with titles beginning with Chika
All pages with titles containing Chika
Chia (surname)
Chaika (surname)
Chiba (surname)
Chica (name)
Chicka (disambiguation)
Chida (surname)
Chika (disambiguation)
Chika (Igbo given name)
Chika (Japanese given name)
Chiki

Index of Japan-related articles (0–9)
This page lists Japan-related articles with titles beginning with a numeral or a symbol.
For names of people, please list by surname (i.e., "Tarō Yamada" should be listed under "Y", not "T").


Symbol
.hack
.hack//GIFT
.hack//Legend of the Twilight
.hack//SIGN
@onefive


0
0rphen
0 Series Shinkansen


1 (one)
18th Infantry Regiment
100 Series Shinkansen
100-yen shop
1518 (album)
1955 System
1964 Summer Olympics
1998 Winter Olympics


2
200 Series Shinkansen
23 special wards
25143 Itokawa
2channel


3
300 Series Shinkansen


4
400 Series Shinkansen
47 Ronin


5 (five)
500 Series Shinkansen


6
64DD


7
700 Series Shinkansen
700T Series Shinkansen
735–737 Japanese smallpox epidemic


8
800 Series Shinkansen


See also
List of Japan-related topics

Cat O'Nine Tails (novel)
Cat O'Nine Tails is the fourth book in the "Cat Royal" series written by Julia Golding.
In this story the protagonist, Cat, dances at a ball, dresses as a boy, and meets an Indian tribe.


Plot
Since the events of Den of Thieves, Cat has been living with Frank and Lizzie.
She is very happy with them, and then Frank's cousin Mr Dixon arrives.
He is very nice to Cat and suggests that they all go a ball, even though Cat isn't a royal.
Cat gets a beautiful dress, but the ball turns out to be a disaster.
Frank is very awkward and doesn't ask her to dance.
Then Billy forces a kiss on her which both Frank and Mr Dixon witness.
Mortified, they return home with Cat ashamed and upset.
Frank tells her off for unladylike behavior, but they soon make up and go riding.
They soon get a letter that their friend Syd has not returned home, and worried, they decide to check the docks for any sign of him.
They are looking for a boat when they are savagely attacked by a press gang, who throw Frank, Pedro and Cat on board HMS Courageous and stab Mr Dixon in the stomach.
On board Cat is forced to pretend to be a boy by a sailor named Maclean.
He threatens Cat and makes her do a lot of chores.
Meanwhile, Syd is also on board after being tricked by his manager.
He is furious that his friends have also been captured, but there is nothing he can do.
Then Cat asks him for a fight so the other sailors respect her more, but Syd refuses.
However, he is pushed into it by the Captain and Cat taunts him desperate to be hit, and Syd finally punches her after she remarks that he is a rubbish kisser and Billy is better.
Syd is really angry with himself for losing his temper but soon forgives himself after a heart-to-heart with Cat.
Then Cat tries to run away when the ship docks but she is chased by Maclean.
Cat is rescued by an Indian tribe and she befriends a girl called Kanawha.
The Indian chief banishes Maclean and Cat settles in with the ship, but deep down she wants to return home.
Cat soon discovers that Dixon had faked his own death to get Frank's wealth as he was broke.
Enraged, Cat rides to Philadelphia, to a meeting discussing sending a search party out for her, There, she reveals Dixon's treacherous deceit and he is disowned by Frank.
Frank finally summons up enough courage to ask Cat to dance, and then Lizzie gives birth to her and Johnny's first child, who is Cat's god-daughter and who is named after her, Catherine Elizabeth Fitzroy.


Reception
Kirkus Reviews considered Cat O'Nine Tails to be a weaker novel than the preceding books in the series, noting that it "is a little too long, the adventures a little too forced and Cat falls a little too easily into and out of scrapes".
They further noted that "Cat's always able to do whatever needs to be done.
She's an impossibly talented tall-tale heroine, good at everything—except choosing among the bevy of boys who adore her." They concluded, "The once-fresh Cat's getting a bit stale."


References

Battle of the Vorskla River
The Battle of the Vorskla River was fought on August 12, 1399, between the Tatars of the Golden Horde, under Edigu and Temür Qutlugh, and the armies of Tokhtamysh and a large Crusader force led by Grand Duke Vytautas the Great of Lithuania.
The battle ended in a decisive Tatar victory for the Golden Horde.


Background
In late 1380s the relationship between Tokhtamysh, Khan of the Golden Horde, and his former master, Timur, was growing tense.
In 1395, after losing the Tokhtamysh–Timur war, Tokhtamysh was dethroned by the party of Khan Temur Qutlugh and Emir Edigu, supported by Timur.
Tokhtamysh escaped to the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and asked Vytautas for assistance in retaking the Horde in exchange for surrendering his suzerainty over Ruthenian lands.
This development was in harmony with Vytautas' ambitions to become ruler of all Ruthenian lands.
A surviving iarlyk shows that Tokhtamysh had asked for Polish–Lithuanian assistance previously in 1393.


Vytautas' expeditions
Vytautas gathered a large army which included Lithuanians, Ruthenians, Poles, Moldavians, and Wallachians.
To enlist support from the Teutonic Knights, Vytautas signed the Treaty of Salynas, surrendering Samogitia to the Knights.
Vytautas's son-in-law, Vasily I of Moscow, formally a Tatar vassal, did not join the coalition.
The joint forces organized three expeditions into Tatar territories, in 1397, 1398, and 1399.
The first expedition reached the Black Sea and Crimea.
Vytautas took several thousand captives without much opposition.
Half of these captives were settled near Trakai and awarded privileges to practice their faith.
Communities of their descendants, Lipka Tatars and Crimean Karaites (Karaims), survive to this day.
In 1398, the army of Vytautas moved from the Dnieper River and attacked northern Crimea, reaching as far east as the River Don.
In order to strengthen his position, Vytautas built a castle at the mouth of Dnieper.
Inspired by their successes, Vytautas declared a "Crusade against the Tatars" and in May 1399 received blessing from Pope Boniface IX.
The papal blessing for the crusade was an important political achievement for Lithuania, a country converted to Christianity only in 1387 and the subject of a hundred-year crusade.
The campaign was organized from Kiev.
In 1399, the army of Vytautas once again moved against the Horde along the Dnieper River.
On August 5, his army met the Tatars at the Vorskla River just north of Poltava (almost same location as the Battle of Poltava of 1709).


Battle
Once the two armies met, Temur Qutlugh proposed a three-day ceasefire to allow both sides to prepare their forces.
It was a trick to win time while Edigu's reinforcements arrived.
Vytautas planned to build a great wagon-fort, to stop charging horsemen, and then to destroy them with cannons and artillery.
Vytautas' army was well equipped, but smaller in number.
However, Temur Qutlugh feigned a retreat (a tried and tested Tatar tactic) and Vytautas left his wagon fort to pursue him.
Once Lithuanian forces were suitably far away from the wagon fort, the units of Edigu appeared from behind and surrounded the Lithuanian army.
At this point Tokhtamysh decided the battle was lost and fled the battle with his men.
The Tatars then used their own artillery to destroy the Lithuanian cavalry whilst simultaneously capturing the Lithuanians' wagon fort.


Aftermath
Vytautas barely escaped alive, but many princes of his kin (including his cousins Demetrius I Starszy and Andrei of Polotsk) and allies (as for example, Stephen I of Moldavia and two of his brothers) died in the battle.
It is estimated that some 50 princes fought under Vytautas' banners and about 20 of them were killed.
The victorious Tatars besieged Kiev, but it paid a ransom.
The Tatars pillaged as far west as Lutsk, in pursuit of Tokhtamysh, who spent the next seven or eight years in hiding and was assassinated in 1407 or 1408.
Vytautas' defeat at the Vorskla effectively blocked Lithuanian expansion to southern Ruthenia.
His state also lost access to the Black Sea as the Tatars reconquered the southern steppe all the way to the borders of Moldavia; lands that were held by the Golden Horde until the Crimean Khanate broke away from its rule some forty-two years later.
After the battle, Yury of Smolensk revolted against Lithuania and Smolensk was not recaptured for five years.
Veliky Novgorod and Pskov also rebelled against Lithuanian rule, drawing Vytautas into a war with the Grand Duchy of Moscow.
Vytautas was forced to abandon his plans to break the Union of Kreva and to ally himself once again with his cousin and King of Poland Jogaila.
The Polish–Lithuanian union was reaffirmed in the Union of Vilnius and Radom.
Vytautas also turned his plans from expansion southwards to east (against Moscow) and west (against the Teutonic Knights).
It has been suggested that Vytautas learned the staged retreat tactic during the battle and successfully used it himself in the Battle of Grunwald (1410), an important defeat of the Teutonic Knights.
The Grand Principality of Moscow benefited most from the battle, as it defended itself from the Lithuanian threat.
The Tatars saved Moscow from Lithuanian expansion, which allowed it to regain its strength and eventually act against the khanate itself.
According to the Lithuanian historian Edvardas Gudavičius:

It is not only Vytautas’s hopes for triumph at the expense of the Russians and Tatars that collapsed.
The peace with the Teutonic Order, for which the Samogitians had paid, was supposed to free Lithuania of the hegemony and suzerainty of Poland.
Now, it was all in vain.
Having successfully begun to strengthen the statehood and international position of Lithuania, Vytautas did not foresee all the dangers, lost his sense of reality, and, having taken an unjustified risk, lost terribly.
His radical political course had to be changed, and other ways had to be found to achieve his goals.


References


Sources
Гумилев, Лев (2023).
От Руси к России.
Moscow: Москва.
ISBN 978-5-17-153845-3.

António Mascarenhas (writer)
António Mascarenhas (24 February 1916 – 1993) was an Indian writer best known as the author of the book Goa from Prehistoric Times (1987).
He wrote in the English language.


Life
António Mascarenhas was born at his mother's ancestral home in Divar, Goa, Portuguese India, on 24 February 1916.
He was baptized as Antonio Inacio Salvador Matias Mascarenhas and spent his early childhood in Zanzibar and his school years at St.
Paul's School, Belgaum, after which he joined the Society of Jesus.
He completed the Gregorian University Ph L summa cum laude.
Although he remained a layman, later marrying and raising a family, he was philosophically a Jesuit.
His work took him between India and Portugal and among teaching, real estate, radio, travel planning and writing.
He died in 1993 at home in Miraton Gardens, Chicalim, Goa, and was buried on the Jesuit feast day.


Works

Among his known works are the following.


Poems
Poems (Tipografia Rangel, Bastora, Goa, c.
1984)


Collected radio talks
Glimpses of the Goan Past (?
c.
1958)
Essays for Diplomats on the Case of Goa (Edições Paulistas, Lumiar, Lisboa, c.
1958)
A Critique of Sir S Radhakrishnan's 'Basis for Human Fellowship (Edições Paulistas, Lumiar, Lisboa, 1959) OCLC 9378530
Goan Life and Outlook (?
c.
1960) OCLC 48263220
An Introduction to Goan Folksongs, Volume 1 ([year unknown] Centro Cultural Goês, Lisboa) which also appeared in a translation by Maria Suzette Carvalho and Tony Mascarenhas (the author's nephew) under the title Dulpodam (c.
1960, Centro Cultural Goês, Lisboa).
OCLC 52870914
Introduction to An Introduction to Goan Folksongs, Volume 2, Mande which appeared in Portuguese as Poesias do Povo Goês by Maria da Paz Cabrita de Barros Santos and Jesuino de Noronha (c.
1960, Centro Cultural Goês, Lisboa).


Travel guides
Open Sesame, Lisbon!
(Edições Paulistas, Lumiar, Lisboa, no date printed) OCLC 503797880
Open Sesame, Fátima!
(Edições Paulistas, Lumiar, Lisboa, no date printed)
To Fátima and There.
Text and photography by the author (?
self-published)
Fátima, A Shrine of Luminous Silence (Edições Francisco Mas, Lisboa, 1967)


Biography
Father Joseph Vaz of Sancoale (Self-published, Goa, c.
1980)


Language
A Concise Konkani Grammar (Tipografia Rangel, Bastora, Goa, 1984)


History
A Tourist's History of Goa (Instituto Menezes Bragança, Panjim, Goa, 1981)
Goa from Prehistoric Times (Self-published, Goa, 1987) OCLC 80210438


Citations
Universidade de Aveiro | Fundação Portugal-Africa [1997-2015]
Carlos A.
Moreira Azevedo, ed., Bibliografia para a História da Igreja em Portugal (1961-2000), Centro de Estudos de História Religiosa, Lisboa, 2013, ISBN 978-972-8361-56-3
Thomas Paul Urumpackal, Organized Religion According to Dr.
S.
Radhakrishnan, Università Gregoriana Editrice, Roma, 1972
Robert Neil Minor, Radhakrishnan: A Religious Biography, State University of New York Press, 1987.
ISBN 0887065546
Bibliography, Luso-Brazilian Review, Vol.
6, No.
2 (Winter, 1969), pp.
104–115, University of Wisconsin Press.
SP Agrawal, Rajeev Kumar Sharma, Government and Politics in India: A Bibliographical Study, Concept Publishing, New Delhi, 1993.
ISBN 8170224160


References

B36 Tórshavn (women)
B36 Tórshavn kvinnur is the women's team of B36 Tórshavn, a Faroese football club based in Tórshavn and founded in 1936.
The club participate in The Faroese Women's League  and plays in black and white.
Their stadium, Gundadalur, has a capacity of 4,000.
The women's section of B36 was created in 1984.


History
Women's football was officially established at The Faroes in 1985, after a trial year in 1984.
B36 Tórshavn immediately established a women's section in the club, and gave it priority.
 This paid off, and the club won the unofficial title in 1984, and the first official woman's national champions title in 1985.
The following years women's football at The Faroes was dominated by teams from the capital.
B36 Tórshavn took four national titles during this period, and the local rivals HB Tórshavn took seven.
In the new millennium, KÍ Klaksvík dominated women's football at The Faroes, by winning the title in 17 consecutive years, and taking the national Cup 14 times.
This dominance lead to a fading interest in women's football elsewhere.
The point of zero came in 2009, were none of the big club from the capital had a women's team in the Premier Division.
A couple of years ago the dominance was broken, and the interest for women's football is increasing.
This may also be based upon the recent success of the national women's team.
B36 Tórshavn has recently made a strategic decision that women's football will be equally treated in youth football, and that the best team will be given the same priority as the men's team.
This is a long term strategy, were the goal is to develop home-grown players and prepare them for senior women's football.
Therefore, there will be a couple of years before the best team again is ready to compete for the national title.


Current squad
As of 5 October 2025

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply.
Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


Honours
Betri kvinnur
Winners (4): 1985, 1987, 1996, 1998
Runners-up (10): 1988, 1994, 1995, 1999, 2001, 2002, 2004, 2005, 2007, 2012
1.
deild kvinnur
Winners (3): 1991, 2010, 2012
Winners 1/2 vøll (2): 2009, 2011
Faroese Women's Cup
Winners (6): 1991, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1997, 2005
Runners-up (3): 1998, 2008, 2012


Honours Youth Academy
Faroe Islands Premier League U-18
Winners (4): 1993, 1994, 2000, 2002
Faroe Islands Cup U-18
Winners (2): 2018, 2019
Faroe Islands Premier League U-16
Winners (6): 1998, 2003, 2010, 2014, 2015, 2017
Faroe Islands Cup U-16
Winners (3): 2000, 2014, 2018
Faroe Islands  Premier League U-13
Winners (1): 2001
Faroe Islands Premier League U-11
Winners (2): 1996, 2006


References


External links
Official website

Ranginui Walker
Ranginui Joseph Isaac Walker  (1 March 1932 – 29 February 2016) was a New Zealand academic, author, and activist of Māori and Lebanese descent.
Walker wrote about Māori land rights and cultural identity in his books and columns for the weekly New Zealand Listener and the monthly Metro magazine throughout the 1980s and 1990s.


Early life
Walker was born in 1932 into a farming family on the tribal lands of Whakatōhea, near Ōpōtiki in the Bay of Plenty.
His mother was Mihikore Walker.
He was adopted by his mother's sister Wairata Walker and her husband Isaac Walker.
He credited Wairata for helping him to learn Māori language and culture at a young age.
In his own history of Whakatōhea (2007) Walker explained that at this time Māori language and culture were unfashionable, and that his generation was expected to assimilate.


Education
Walker was sent to St Peter's Maori College Auckland at the age of twelve.
He went on to attend Auckland Teachers' Training College, and worked as a primary school teacher for 10 years.
He gained a Bachelor of Arts and a Diploma in Teaching in 1962, a Master's in 1965, and finished his doctorate in 1970.
The title of his doctoral thesis was The social adjustment of the Maori to urban living in Auckland.


Personal life
Walker met Deirdre Dodson at Auckland Teachers' Training College in Epsom, and the couple were married in 1953.
They had three children.
According to biographer Professor Paul Spoonley, "The acceptance of intermarriage was an issue for both sets of parents: Walker's parents were concerned that Deirdre was a Pākehā and not Roman Catholic; Deirdre’s were concerned that their daughter was to marry a Māori."
Walker commented that the country's race problems would be solved 'in the bedrooms of the nation.'


Career and activism
Walker was a member of Māori activist group Ngā Tamatoa and Secretary of the Auckland District Māori Council from 1969 to 1973 and chairman from 1974 to 1990.
In 1993 he became the Professor and Head of Māori Studies at the University of Auckland.
In 2003, Walker became a member of the Waitangi Tribunal.
He held a strong belief in Maori Identity, and had stated that William Hobson's declaration that "He iwi tahi tātou", meaning "We are now one people", in the Treaty of Waitangi, was a cultural attack on the indigenous people of New Zealand.


Awards and honours
In the 2001 Queen's Birthday Honours, Walker was appointed a Distinguished Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to Māori.
When the New Zealand government restored titular honours in 2009, he declined redesignation as a Knight Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit.
Walker believed it was not appropriate to accept a knighthood which would undermine the significance of Māori sovereignty, an issue he stood firmly on.
He was only one of two candidates to decline the knighthood, the other being Richie McCaw.

In 2009, Walker received a Prime Minister's Award for Literary Achievement
Following Walker's death in 2016, Prime Minister John Key said Walker was "not only an insightful commentator on important historical and contemporary issues but was a tireless and passionate advocate for Māori".
Former Prime Minister Helen Clark tweeted "Greatly saddened by news of death of Ranginui Walker, one of New Zealand's finest people; eminent academic & author."


Published works
Walker published a number of books, including:

Perceptions and Attitudes of the New Generation of Maoris to Pakeha Domination (1981)
History of Maori Activism (1983)
The Treaty of Waitangi (1983)
The Political Development of the Maori People in New Zealand (1984)
The Meaning of Biculturalism (1986)
Nga Mamae o te Iwi Maori: Te Ripoata o te Hui i Turangawaewae (1987)
Nga Tau Tohetohe The Years of Anger (1987)
Ka Whawhai Tonu Matou / Struggle Without End (1990) Second Edition (2004)
Liberating Maori from Educational Subjection (1991)
Nga Pepa a Ranginui The Walker Papers (1997)
He Tipua The Life and Times of Sir Apirana Ngata (2001)
Opotiki-Mai-Tawhiti Capital of Whakatohea (2007)


Notes


Sources

Noura Al Jasmi
Noura Al Jasmi (born November 2001), also spelled Noura al-Jasmi or Noura Aljasmi (Arabic: نورة الجسمي), is an Emirati beauty pageant titleholder who was crowned Miss Earth United Arab Emirates 2024.
At age 24, she debuted as the inaugural representative of the country to Miss Earth, where she placed among the Top 20 semifinalists.


Life and career
Al Jasmi is an aviation science student from Dubai who works at a private aviation company.
She has previously worked with Emirates.
Additionally, she volunteered at the 2023 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP28).


Pageantry
In 2024, Al Jasmi competed in the inaugural Miss and Mrs.
Middle East pageant held in Ras Al Khaimah, where reigning Miss Earth 2023 Drita Ziri served as a guest judge.
The contest was organized by the Dubai-based fashion show company DLK Groups.
She represented the United Arab Emirates at Miss Earth 2024, becoming the first woman from her country to compete in Miss Earth, finishing in the Top 20, and in any of the Big Four beauty pageants.


References

Bullet Train Explosion
Bullet Train Explosion (Japanese: 新幹線大爆破, Hepburn: Shinkansen Daibakuha; lit. 'The Shinkansen's Big Explosion') is a 2025 Japanese action thriller film directed by Shinji Higuchi and starring Tsuyoshi Kusanagi, Kanata Hosoda, Non, Takumi Saitoh, Machiko Ono, Jun Kaname and Hana Toyoshima.
A sequel to the 1975 film The Bullet Train, the film premiered on Netflix on 23 April 2025.


Plot

Hayabusa 60 (5060B) is an E5 Series Shinkansen bound from Shin-Aomori to Tokyo, under the supervision of first-line manager Kazuya Takaichi.
Shortly after the train's departure, an anonymous caller contacts the JR East headquarters in Tokyo, saying they have planted a bomb on the train that will explode if it slows down below 100 km/h.
After the bomber destroys a nearby freight train, JR East orders all trains on the Tōhoku Shinkansen stopped to clear a path for Hayabusa 60, whose driver Chika Matsumoto is ordered to pass through all stations and stay above 100 km/h, while keeping the bomb a secret to the passengers.
Back in Tokyo, the bomber calls again and demands a ransom of ¥100 billion from all citizens of Japan in exchange for the lives of those aboard Hayabusa 60.
Under orders from the government and JR East, Takaichi announces the bomb emergency, causing several passengers to question the staff's inspection procedures while female politician Yuko Kagami uses the situation to restore her tainted reputation.
As chief cabinet secretary Suwa discloses the bomb situation to the public and says the safety of the passengers is the government's priority, the bomber hacks through all networks and streams a ransom video of the bomb being planted, causing panic aboard the train.
A problem arises when a southbound train stalls at Morioka due to a bird strike, prompting JR East to switch Hayabusa 60's route to the northbound track.
With dispatcher Yuichi Kasagi's calculations, Hayabusa 60 manages to switch tracks but hits the rear car of a northbound train.
On board, millionaire influencer Mitsuru Todoroki announces an online platform to raise the ransom money, prompting the passengers to share the link and make donations before Kagami confronts him.
TMPD inspector Kawagoe and his team identify the crisis as a copycat of the Hikari 109 incident from 1975.
On the train, two livestreamers approach a disgraced businessman named Masayoshi Goto and demand he apologize for one of his tour helicopters crashing at an elementary school, triggering a fight between them before Goto is knocked unconscious.
Kasagi informs Takaichi that a rescue plan is underway.
After receiving equipment from supply train 9012B – an experimental ALFA-X unit – and evacuating the passengers to the front cars, the Hayabusa 60 crew coordinates with the Shinkansen Rolling Stock Maintenance Center in Rifu in uncoupling the two rear cars so that a rescue train can catch up with Hayabusa 60 and evacuate the passengers via a temporary bridge.
They successfully disconnect the cars, which explode; however, they suspect more bombs aboard the train.
Rescue train 9014B arrives and the crew evacuate the passengers to it, but a student named Yuzuki Onodera has gone missing and Goto goes on a suicidal rampage.
Just as Kagami calms down Goto, the emergency brake on 9014B suddenly activates, destroying the bridge.
Matsumoto slams the brakes just above 100 km/h, causing 9014B to collide and separate with the train and assistant manager Fujii to be impaled by a metal shard.
A total of 340 people are rescued aboard 9014B while nine people – including Takaichi, Fujii, Matsumoto, Kagami, Todoroki, Goto, and Onodera – remain aboard Hayabusa 60.
Sasaki, senior advisor to the Prime Minister, wants to make sure the train does not reach Tokyo.
Takaichi calls JR East and tells them to connect the Tōhoku and Tokaido Shinkansen lines at Tokyo to buy them more time.
Onodera calls her father Tsutomu in Hadano and reveals herself as the bomber.
After killing her father with a similar bomb, she calls JR East and tells them in order to defuse the bombs, they must kill her, as a heart monitor in her body is linked to the bombs.
While investigating Onodera, Kawagoe learns that Tsutomu was one of the police officers sent to arrest Masaru Koga, one of the Hikari 109 terrorists, but while Koga detonated a suicide bomb, the police branded Tsutomu a hero, claiming he shot Koga in self-defense and saved the Shinkansen industry.
With the help of Koga's son Masatoshi, Onodera plotted the bomb threat to destroy the lies surrounding her abusive father, including the legacy of the Shinkansen.
When Fujii's condition reaches critical from massive blood loss and JR East is ordered by the government to stop the rail extension, Takaichi resists the urge to strangle Onodera.
The police learn from Masatoshi that the remaining bombs are on cars 1, 4, and 6.
Kasagi devises a plan to divert the front six cars onto a branch where they can safely explode while using timed switching of tracks to uncouple the final two cars.
Matsumoto leaves her post and joins the remaining passengers and crew in car 8, where they strap themselves in and use luggage as makeshift padding.
Hayabusa 60 reaches the uncoupling point and cars 7 and 8 are successfully uncoupled while the front six cars slow down and explode.
Car 7 derails and is destroyed by car 8, which is finally stopped by water-filled barriers.
Rescue workers rush into car 8 and recover the passengers and crew.
Kawagoe apprehends Onodera and reveals that Todoroki's fundraiser reached its ¥100 billion goal, telling her to have more faith in humanity.
The other passengers bow to Takaichi before JR workers approach him and congratulate him for his efforts.


Cast


Hayabusa 60


Outside people


Production
Unlike the original film, production for Bullet Train Explosion received support from the East Japan Railway Company, which provided actual Shinkansen units and railway facilities for filming.


Reception
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 65% of 31 critics' reviews are positive.
Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 63 out of 100, based on five critics, indicating "generally favorable" reviews.
Todd Gilchrist of Variety wrote, "For multiple generations of audiences weaned on the first film's downstream successors, Higuchi's follow-up may prove too straightforward or classy to elicit the same excitement.
But Bullet Train Explosion feels like a blockbuster made for adults — or let's say, not for a lowest-common-denominator audience — where the priority is throwing challenges and complications at smart characters instead of sparking conflict with cheap narrative shortcuts and bad, even dumb choices."
Simon Abrams of RogerEbert.com gave the film three out of four stars and wrote, "With Bullet Train Explosion, you get a straight-down-the-line crowdpleaser, replete with duty-bound authority figures in well-pressed uniforms, anxious and often self-absorbed passengers, Macgyver-like problem-solving, seat-of-your-pants close calls, that sort of thing.
There are no real surprises here, just what you'd want from this sort of cheeseball entertainment."


References


External links
Official website
Bullet Train Explosion at IMDb
Bullet Train Explosion at Eiga.com

2023–24 Men's England Hockey League season
The 2023–24 Men's England Hockey League season was the 2023–24 season of England's field hockey league structure and England Hockey Men's Championship Cup for men.
The season started on 16 September 2023.
Old Georgians were the defending league and cup champions, having won the league and cup double twice during the last two seasons.

Old Georgians secured a third successive league championship defeating Surbiton 3-1 in the play off final.
Beeston regained the England Hockey Men's Championship Cup that they last won in 2020.


Format
The Premier Division changed the system of phases and matches, whereby it was possible for a team finishing eighth after phase 2 to still win the title.

Phase 1 - 11 matches per club determining the top six and bottom six clubs for phase 2.
Phase 2 - 5 additional matches per club determining the top eight and bottom four clubs for phase 3.
Phase 3 - 3 additional matches per club determining the top four to progress to league finals weekend and the bottom two to be relegated.


2023-24 teams


Premier Division


Division One South


Division One North


Final tables


Premier Division


Top 8 - Phase 3


Finals weekend

Old Georgians  George Pinner (gk), Henry Weir, Liam Sanford, Thabang Modise, Tom Carson, James Carson (fg 57th minute), Ashley Jackson, Dan Shingles (c) (pc 45th minute), Josh Pavis, Lee Morton (fg 22nd minute), Edward Carson, Chris Griffiths, Chris Proctor, Sam Hiha, Matthew Brown, Alan Forsyth
Surbiton  James Mazarelo (gk), Luke Naylor, Rob Farrington, Jonny Gall, Tim Nurse (c), Nick Park, Struan Walker (fg 2nd minute), Louis Gittens, Stuart Rushmere, Brendan Creed, Adam Buckle, Alex Williams, Sam Corney, Conor Williamson, Gareth Furlong, Jack Hobkirk


Division One South


Division One North


England Hockey Men's Championship Cup


Semi-finals


Final
Lee Valley Hockey and Tennis Centre

Beeston  Toby Jackson (gk), Toby Stanley, Alasdair Richmond, Robbie Gleeson, Gareth Griffiths (c), Ben Collinson, Ollie Ashdown, Henry Croft (pc 51st minute, fg 66th minute), Brendan Andrews, Owen Sutton, Joe Paul, William Prentice (fg 40th minute), Max Sowter (fg 58th minute), Dylan Lim, Jack Stamp, Ryan Day
Banbury  Fergus Dunleavy (gk), Charlie Camp, Pete Lamb, Josh Nunneley (pc 55th minute), Sam Pick, Joe Allen, Tyson Nunneley (pc 30th minute), Connor Roberts, Jacob Buckner-Rowley, George Brooker (c), Jamie Boardman, Will Kellett, Jonty Duffy, Tom Crowfoot, James Long, Will Crowfoot


See also
2023–24 Women's England Hockey League season


References

Bugyn Dejid
Bugyn Dejid (Mongolian: Бугын Дэжид; born 1927) was a Mongolian politician and military figure who served as Minister of Public Security of the Mongolian People's Republic from 1971 to 1981.


Biography
Bugyn Dejid studied at the Mongolian State University between 1952 and 1957 and was then Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee of the People's Khural of the Govi-Altai Province from 1957 to 1960 and then Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee of the People's Khural of the Töv Province, the central province of the Mongolian People's Republic, between 1960 and 1963.
After serving as First Secretary of the MRVP Provincial Committee of the Töv Province from 1963 to 1966, he served as First Secretary of the Mongolian People's Party Provincial Committee of the Bayan-Ölgii Province between 1966 and 1970.
He also became a member of the Central Committee of the Mongolian People's Party at the 15th Party Congress in 1966.
Bugyn Dejid then served as First Deputy Minister of Public Security from 1970 to 1971 and then as Lieutenant General between 1971 and 1981 as Minister of Public Security.
He was finally promoted to Colonel General and was also a deputy of the Great People's Khural, the parliament of the Mongolian People's Republic.
At the 18th Party Congress in 1981, he was also a candidate for the Politburo of the Central Committee and also served as chairman of the Party Control Commission between 1981 and 1986.
At the 7th Plenum of the Central Committee on 6 December 1983, he was appointed as the successor to Sampilyn Jalan-Aajav who had been relieved of all his functions, as a member of the Politburo of the Central Committee, of which he remained until March 1990.
In addition, after the 19th Party Congress, he was Secretary of the Central Committee of the Mongolian People's Party from 1986 to March 1990.
In this capacity, he also took part in the Fourteenth Party Congress of the Romanian Communist Party (20 to 24 November 1989) and was received by General Secretary Nicolae Ceaușescu.
After his loss of power, he was expelled from the party shortly afterwards for "gross violation of party discipline and the reputation of the party".


References


Citations


Bibliography
Radchenko, Sergey (2005).
"Power Struggle in Socialist Mongolia: Review of Two Political Memoirs".
Innter Asia.
7 (2).
Pittsburg State University.

Keenyn Walker
Keenyn Tyler Walker (born August 12, 1990 in Salt Lake City, Utah) is an American former professional baseball outfielder.


Career


Chicago White Sox
Walker was drafted by the Chicago Cubs in the 16th round of the 2009 MLB Draft, after attending Judge Memorial Catholic High School but did not sign.
Walker was drafted again this time by the Philadelphia Phillies in the 38th round of the 2010 MLB Draft but did not sign.
He attended Central Arizona College.
Walker was drafted for the third year in a row, by the Chicago White Sox in the 1st round (47th overall) of the 2011 MLB Draft.
Walker started his baseball career in 2011 at the Rookie level with the Great Falls Voyagers and then was promoted to Class A Kannapolis Intimidators.
In 2011 combined, Walker hit .257 in 222 at-bats with no HRs, 24 RBI, and 21 SBs.
In 2012, Walker started the year at Kannapolis but was later promoted to Class A-Advanced Winston-Salem Dash.
In 2012 combined, Walker hit .267 in 409 at-bats with four home runs, 55 RBI, and 56 stolen bases.
Before the 2013 season, Walker was ranked the White Sox #8 prospect.
Walker was promoted to Double-A Birmingham Barons before the start of the 2013 season.
Walker spent the entire season in Birmingham and he batted .201 in 462 at bats with three home runs, 32 RBI, and 38 stolen bases.
Walker split the 2014 and 2015 seasons between the advanced Single-A Winston-Salem Dash and Double-A Birmingham Barons, slashing .197/.277/.265 between the two in 2014, and .226/.308/.286 in 2015.
Walker spent the entirety of 2016 in Birmingham, hitting .240/.330/.340 with 3 home runs and 28 RBI in 329 at-bats.
Walker was released by the White Sox on April 4, 2017.


Windy City ThunderBolts
On April 28, 2017, Walker signed with the Windy City ThunderBolts of the Frontier League.
On the season, Walker hit .225/.316/.342 with 6 home runs and 31 RBI in 95 games with the ThunderBolts.


Lancaster Barnstormers
On February 1, 2018, Walker signed with the Lancaster Barnstormers of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball.
He was released on June 1, 2018 after hitting .182/.289/.242 with no home runs and 3 RBI in 14 games.
Walker has since retired from professional baseball and is currently a trainer, coach, and EMT.


References


External links
Career statistics from Baseball Reference (Minors)

Smart port
A smart port is most often defined by being a technologically advanced seaport that integrates digitalization, automation, and data-driven solutions to optimize logistics, improve efficiency, enhance security, and reduce environmental impact.
It uses technologies like IoT, AI, big data, and blockchain to streamline operations, monitor cargo movements, and improve decision-making in real-time.
A smart port equips the workforce with relevant skills and technology to solve the unique internal and external challenges of the organisation, and to facilitate the efficient movement of goods, delivery of services and smooth flow of information.
Using a holistic approach, the smart port achieves results without creating new challenges internally or elsewhere in the supply chain eco-system.



Background
The smart port minimises the negative impacts of its activities on the natural environment and enhances the surrounding communities - economically and socially.

The material benefits of chosen technologies allow the smart port to:

Improve efficiency to gain competitive advantage
Increase business resilience to economic shocks or disruptive forces
Extract maximum value from physical assets
Develop new revenue streams based on digital value propositions
Increase employee engagement and wellbeing
Achieve and exceed environmental commitments
A smart port is not defined by the use of any one particular technology or concept.


Concept
Smart ports employ smart technology solutions to increase efficiency, effectiveness and security by making ports more environmentally sustainable, economically efficient and capable of handling increased port traffic.


Efficiency
Due to the increasing size and volume of container, transport and cruise ships, ports continue to face new challenges with daily traffic and processing.
Technologies such as IoT can improve warehouse logistics, inventory management etc.
and help automate loading, dispatching and transporting goods.
In smart ports, parking spaces could be optimised and traffic streamlined by making more efficient use of limited space.
Sensors, cameras, drones and other technologies can automatically collect and share information such as weather, traffic and pollution data for port owners and customers.
Optimizing workflow could double capacity without having to additional space or having to invest in new infrastructure and equipment, while simultaneously reducing operation costs.
Making a port "smart" not only means digitally connecting everything inside the port, but also requires multilevel cooperation among government authorities, businesses, local communities and other relevant parties.
Shared data from smart ports also requires standardisation so that it could be better utilised by people in different countries and locations.
The latest information from international business intelligence provider Visiongain, assesses that Smart Ports Market spending will reach $1.5 bn in 2019.
A smart port takes complete advantage of space, produces higher revenues, saves natural resources and benefits from the technology accessible to the logistics community.

Artificial intelligence could assist with security checks and automated screening processes, not only helping to standardise and lower the durations of those tasks, but also making them safer, more reliable and less dependent on human failure.


Economics
In order to remain economically competitive, ports need to efficiently streamline workflow and minimise costs.
If the optimal traffic flow for ships can be determined automatically, the cargo loading and unloading times can be optimised to save time so that more ships and cargo can be cleared in less time.
Local natural resources such as petroleum can also serve as incentives for port development, leading to long-term trade and economic development for an entire area.
At the same time, as automation is potentially able to lower overhead and costs, smart ports can become less financially dependent on political authorities, allowing increased flexibility for private investments and improvements.


Environmental sustainability
Ports have historically suffered from high levels of environmental pollution.
However, smart ports can limit energy consumption and waste by making use of automation and smart technologies.
Hamburg, for example, has a system of sensors, cameras and smart lights on roads to help monitor and direct traffic, which can help to optimize traffic and thus lower emissions.
These large public infrastructural development projects typically require significant cooperation from various agencies and government authorities.


Development and innovation
Ports have always served an important function for the transfer of goods.
Before the Industrial Revolution, ports had functioned as trade centers and marketplaces that would develop into centers for cross-cultural exchange, social development and demographic settlement.

In the 21st century, as ports merge with big data, artificial intelligence and IoT, the port is beginning to be seen as an interconnected smart environment bringing together different port sectors and even other ports.
The whole supply chain is integrated while making autonomous, intelligent choices.
To help build a network of highly connected and technologically advanced smart ports all over the world, the Hamburg Port Authority started the chainPORT initiative in collaboration with ports like Los Angeles, Montreal, Rotterdam, Antwerp, Barcelona, Felixstowe, Singapore and Busan, to share and disseminate the concept of smart ports.

The maritime industry has been testing blockchain technology since 2017 and several shipping companies have partnered with tech companies to create blockchain shipping systems to improve maritime logistics.
IBM has tested the Blockchain technology in Customs Declaration (CusDec) submission.
Delays happen in customs declaration submission and border clearing could be minimised if the industry is ready to practice IBM's initiative.
According to 2024 WIPO Technology trends future of transportation report, the scientific community's engagement with smart ports has seen a noticeable uptick in research activity.
Since 2016, there has been a marked increase in peer-reviewed journal articles focusing on various aspects of smart port technologies.
Besides, the number of published patent families has increased from only 20 in 2016 to over 100 in 2023.



Criticisms
Since smart ports would have to deal with big data and operate using surveillance, data privacy and security are potential areas of concern.
Concerns include questions of who will have access to the data, and how networks can be protected from hacking and sabotage.
Others criticise the term "smart" as frequently overused and exaggerated by IoT advocates for marketing purposes, while a truly "smart" environment should be able to learn and interact.
A port ecosystem consists of multiple parties that take on a diverse range of tasks and responsibilities, with each party having different priorities for port development.
Currently, the smart port approach is frequently being promoted by port authorities.
However, successfully developing a smart port requires a more holistic multi-stakeholder approach that would require large-scale cooperation on many different levels.
Another problem with automation is the mass replacement of human workers, which has already led to protests in places such as the Port of Los Angeles.
Some governments have to focus more on providing jobs rather than focusing on smart solutions when the port operation is done by the government.
Automation also cannot be utilised to its full potential if there is a lack of basic infrastructures, such as when there is insufficient capacity for containers or inadequate port area size.
In such circumstances, the real cost of implementing smart port technologies can actually outweigh the benefits.
Further, smart solutions are highly capital intensive.
This may not be affordable for every port.


See also
Intelligent transportation system
Intermodal freight transport
Smart city
Smart highway
Smart grid
Smart environment
Ubiquitous computing
Intelligent maintenance system
Supply chain management
LoRaWAN


References

I. M. Muthanna
Dr.
I.
M.
Muthanna was a noted Indian writer, scholar and translator; he wrote in English, Kannada and Kodava takk and studied history, folklore and international studies.
He was born in Kodagu into the Kodava (Coorg) community.
He spent much of his later life in Canada.
He is also responsible to developing the Muthanna script for Kodava Takk that has been accepted as the official script of the language by the Government of Karnataka.


Work
Some of the books that he wrote are listed below:

A tiny model state of South India (in 1953)
Indo-Ethiopian relations for centuries (in 1961)
Muttaṇṇana kavanagaḷu (Kannada anthology in 1962)
History of Karnataka: history, administration & culture (in 1962)
General Cariappa: (the first Indian commander-in-chief) (in 1964)
The Coorg memoirs (the story of the Kodavas): Muthanna speaks out (in 1971),
General Thimmayya (former: Chief of Army Staff, India; Chairman, N.N.R.C., Korea; Commander, U.N.
Forces, Cyprus) (in 1972),
People of India in North America (part one) (in 1975),
Karnataka, history, administration & culture (in 1977)
Tipu Sultan x'rayed (in 1980),
People of India in North America (United States, Canada, W.
Indies, & Fiji): immigration history of East-Indians up to 1960 (in 1982),
Koḍava Kannaḍa nighaṇṭu : Koḍava takk nighaṇṭ (Kodava-Kannada dictionary in 1983),
Mother Besant and Mahatma Gandhi (in 1986),
Kodavas & their gala "lela": Kodava folklores & songs (in 1987)


References


Main sources
Jagathigonde Kodagu, by K P Muththanna, 1969.
Kodavas, by B D Ganapathy, 1980.
A study of the Origin of Coorgs, by Lt Col K C Ponnappa (Rtd), 1999.

Hypotia leonalis
Hypotia leonalis is a species of snout moth in the genus Hypotia.
It was described by Oberthür in 1887, and is known from Algeria and Tunisia.
The larvae have been recorded feeding on Atriplex halimus.


References

Jamasab
Jamasab (Persian: جاماسب, also Romanized as Jāmāsab) is a village in Gurani Rural District, Gahvareh District, Dalahu County, Kermanshah Province, Iran.
At the 2006 census, its population was 57, in 14 families.


References

Archduke Rainer of Austria
Archduke Rainer of Austria may refer to:

Archduke Rainer Joseph of Austria (1783–1853), eighth son of Emperor Leopold II
Archduke Rainer Ferdinand of Austria (1827–1913), fourth son of Archduke Rainer (1783-1853)
Archduke Rainer of Austria (1895–1930) (1895–1930), eldest son of Archduke Leopold Salvator

That Hamilton Man
That Hamilton Man is an album by drummer and bandleader Chico Hamilton, recorded in 1959 and released on the SESAC label.
The album was a limited release "electronic transcription" to promote SESAC-controlled material to radio stations.


Reception

AllMusic rated the album three stars.


Track listing
"Fat Mouth" (Dick Vance) - 3:01
"Theme for a Starlet" (Hal Keller) - 2:46
"Little Lost Bear" (Krevit) - 1:48
"Champs-Elysees" (Gerald Wiggins) - 2:32
"Pretty Little Theme" (Chico Hamilton) - 1:51
"Lost in the Night" (Richard Maltby) - 3:18
"Frou Frou" (Victor Young) - 3:19
"Cawn Pawn" (Hale Smith) - 2:31
"Lullaby for Dreamers" (Vance) - 2:59
"Opening" (Hamilton) - 1:39
"Lady "E"" (Eric Dolphy) - 2:40
"Truth" (Drucker) - 3:08


Personnel
Chico Hamilton - drums
Eric Dolphy - alto saxophone, bass clarinet, flute
Nathan Gershman - cello
Dennis Budimir - guitar
Ralph Pena (tracks 8 & 11), Wyatt Ruther (tracks 1–7, 9, 10 & 12) - bass


References

Loon Lake (novel)
Loon Lake is a 1980 novel by E.
L.
Doctorow.
The plot of the novel is mostly set on Loon Lake in the Adirondacks during the Depression.
The novel is one of the more experimental works of Doctorow, incorporating a great variety of different techniques, many of which are used for preventing the reader from an easy understanding of the narration: traditional narratives, stream of consciousness, poetry, mixed up chronology.
Loon Lake of the title is also the name of a retreat for millionaire industrialist F.
W.
Bennett where the drifter Joe temporarily finds home, after being attacked by the wild dogs surrounding the estate.
In Loon Lake Joe finds the other main characters of the novel, Clara who is a woman seen by Joe through the windows of a private railway carriage, and the poet Warren Penfield.


Critical notes
Christopher Lehmann-Haupt of The New York Times noted: "So, in a way, it is two books we have to read – the existential adventure we get the first time through, and the tract on history we perceive when we read again knowing the outcome.
But if to some degree these two books cancel one another out, they also work together to create the portrait of a new kind of American hero – a portrait rich in its psychology and historical nuance, and subtle in the imagery evoked by that isolated paradise in the Adirondacks.
It tells us about love and sex and money and desire.
It tells us as much about ourselves as Theodore Dreiser did."
Kirkus Reviews stated that: "Imagine a fair-to-good novel by Kurt Vonnegut in his more socio-economic, Mr.
Rosewater-ish vein.
Then imagine that it's been scrambled, weighed down with self-conscious prose, and avant-garded up (Joycean run-ons, blank verse, skewed tenses and pronouns) by someone intent on making a literary impression.
That, unfortunately, is the general effect of this artful but lifeless picaresque novel – which follows the crossing 1936 paths of a very young vagabond and a somewhat older failed-poet, both of whom love a tormented beauty and both of whom wind up under the wing of a great tycoon".


References

Adalgisel (given name)
Adalgisel was a Frankish duke and the mayor of the palace of Austrasia.
Adalgisel is a Germanic masculine given name that may refer to:

Adalgisel Grimo (died after 634), Frankish deacon
Aldgisl, Frisian duke


See also
Adelchis (given name)

St. Regis Indians
The St.
Regis Indians were a Senior "A" box lacrosse team from St.
Regis Mohawk Reservation, New York on Akwesasne Island.
 The Indians played in the Major Series Lacrosse Senior "A" Lacrosse League from 1998 to 2009.


History
Until 1998 the team was known as the Akwesasne Thunder.
The Thunder played at the Senior B level and were 2-time Presidents Cup (box lacrosse) national champions (1995 and 1997).
The Thunder won league championships four consecutive times (1994-97) before the move to Senior A.
The Indians played in the 1999 Major Series Lacrosse championship series, losing to the Brampton Excelsiors in five games.
The club folded after a story-filled 2009 season.


References

Hansruedi
Hansruedi is a Swiss masculine given name.
Notable people with the surname include:

Hansruedi Beugger (1930–2020), Swiss bobsledder
Hansruedi Blatter (1936–1971), Swiss footballer
Hansruedi Bruder (born 1937), Swiss sprinter
Hansruedi Engler (1928–2011), Swiss canoeist
Hansruedi Fässler (born 1949), Swiss footballer
Hansruedi Führer (born 1937), Swiss footballer
Hansruedi Glauser (1945–2014), Swiss chess player
Hansruedi von Gunten (1928–2021), Swiss chemist and mountaineer
Hansruedi Jost (1934–2016), Swiss hammer thrower
Hansrüedi Knill (born 1940), Swiss middle-distance runner
Hansruedi Kunz (born 1945), Swiss decathlete
Hansruedi Märki (born 1960), Swiss cyclist
Hansruedi Müller (born 1940), Swiss bobsledder
Hansruedi Roth (born 1942), Swiss luger
Hansruedi Schafroth (born 1934), Swiss sports shooter
Hansruedi Schär (born 1957), Swiss footballer
Hansruedi Scheller (1931–2007), Swiss rower
Hansruedi Schneider (1926–2017), Swiss sports shooter
Hansruedi Süssli (born 1951), Swiss biathlete
Hansruedi Widmer (born 1944), Swiss speed skater
Hansruedi Wiedmer (born 1945), Swiss sprinter

145 BC
Year 145 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar.
At the time it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aemilianus and Mancinus (or, less frequently, year 609 Ab urbe condita).
The denomination 145 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.


Events


By place


Syria
In the Battle of Antioch, Ptolemy VI Philometor defeats the Seleucid usurper Alexander Balas, but dies in the battle.


Egypt
Ptolemy VII becomes king of Egypt briefly, then is assassinated by Ptolemy VIII the following year.


By topic


Astronomy
Hipparchus determines the length of the tropical year.


Births
Sima Qian, Chinese historian (or 135 BC) (d.
86 BC)


Deaths
Alexander Balas (assassinated)
Ptolemy VI of Egypt (killed in battle) (b.
c.
186 BC)


References

Elachista praelineata
Elachista praelineata is a moth of the family Elachistidae.
It is found in the United States, where it has been recorded from Ohio.
The habitat consists of dry hillside woods.


Description
The wingspan is 6.5 – 7.5 mm.


References

Tiger Orange
Tiger Orange is a 2014 American drama film directed by Wade Gasque and written by Gasque and Mark Strano.
The film starts Strano and Frankie Valenti as Chet and Todd, two gay brothers struggling to reconnect after their father's death.


Plot
Chet, shy and reserved, has been living relatively closeted in the small town where the brothers grew up, running their father's hardware store and taking great care not to be too open about his sexuality in the town's relatively conservative social order, while Todd, more upfront about his sexuality, left home at 18 to move to Los Angeles, where he has been struggling to build a career as an actor.
Despite the clash of personalities, however, each also envies some aspects of the other's life; Chet envies Todd's freedom to live his life openly, while Todd regrets not having experienced Chet's sense of belonging to a close-knit community and the opportunity he had to remain in close contact with their father.
The tensions between them reach their peak when Brandon (Gregory Marcel), Chet's high school crush, also returns home to take care of his ailing mother; Chet continues to struggle with his feelings for Brandon, while Todd actively pursues him.


Release and reception
The film premiered on July 18, 2014 at Outfest.
Strano won the festival's award for Best Actor in a Feature Film.
Valenti's performance also drew praise from critics, with many calling attention to how unexpectedly strong it was for an actor previously known primarily for porn.
In a 2015 post for Indiewire's /Bent blog on LGBT film, Gasque described the film as having been inspired by the LGBT community's "subtle tug-of-war between our desire to stand out and our need to fit in."
The film was picked up by Wolfe Video for distribution on DVD, video on demand and digital media platforms in January 2015.
It was released to those platforms in July 2015.


References


External links
Tiger Orange at IMDb

Madonnina (statue)
The Madonnina (Italian: [madonˈniːna], Milanese: [maduˈniːna] ) is a statue of the Virgin Mary atop Milan Cathedral in Italy.
The Madonnina spire or guglia del tiburio ("lantern spire"), one of the main features of the cathedral, was erected in 1762 at the height of 108.5 m (356 ft), as designed by Francesco Croce.
 At the top of the spire is the polychrome Madonnina statue, designed and built by Giuseppe Perego in 1774, during the episcopacy of Giuseppe Pozzobonelli who supported the idea to place the Madonnina at the top of the Cathedral.
By tradition, no building in Milan is higher than the Madonnina.
When Gio Ponti's Pirelli Building was being built in the late 1950s, at a height of 127.1 m (417 ft), a smaller replica of the Madonnina was placed atop the Pirelli building, so the new Madonnina remains the tallest point in Milan.

In 2010 another replica was placed as well on the top of the Palazzo Lombardia, at a height of 161 m (528 ft), being then the tallest building in the city.
In 2015 still another replica was placed atop the Allianz Tower so that the Madonnina still occupies the highest roof in the city, now at 209 m (686 ft).
The Madonnina is the subject of the most traditional Milanese song, O mia bella Madonnina.
The Derby della Madonnina named after it is the local rivalry between the city's two football clubs A.C.
Milan and Inter Milan.


See also
Terra Sancta College (Jerusalem), with a replica of the Madonnina ocrowning the facade
Symbols of Milan


Notes

Sandra Birch
Sandra Birch-Krusos (born September 3, 1969) is a former professional tennis player from the United States.
She is a member of the Stanford Athletic Hall of Fame.


Biography
Birch, who was raised in Huntington Bay on Long Island, was runner-up to Natasha Zvereva in the girls' singles at the 1987 US Open.
From 1988 to 1991, she played collegiate tennis for Stanford University and was a member of the championship winning teams in each of those four seasons.
She was a two-time NCAA Division I singles champion.
In 1989, she beat Jennifer Santrock to win her first singles championship, and she was runner-up in the doubles.
Her second championship was won in 1991 as a senior, over Lisa Albano in the final.
While at Stanford, she won the Honda Sports Award as the nation's best female tennis player in 1991.
Both championship wins earned her a wildcard into the US Open main draw.
She was beaten in the first round by Conchita Martínez in 1989 and Manuela Maleeva in 1991.
While at Stanford, she competed in several WTA Tour professional tournaments, most notably the 1989 OTB Open held in Schenectady, where she was a singles quarterfinalist and runner-up in the doubles with Debbie Graham.


WTA Tour finals


Doubles (0-1)


References


External links
Sandra Birch at the Women's Tennis Association 
Sandra Birch at the International Tennis Federation

Peter J. Campbell
Peter J.
Campbell (April 13, 1857 – December 20, 1919) was an American lawyer and politician, a member of the Maryland House of Delegates and President of the Maryland Senate.
Born at Baltimore, Maryland, Campbell attended private and public schools, including a private class taught by Woodrow Wilson, and graduated from the law school at the University of Maryland in 1884, and admitted to the bar that year.
Politically, he was a  Democrat.
 In 1885, he was elected to the Maryland House of Delegates, and twice re-elected.
In 1911, he was elected to the Maryland State Senate, where he served as the chairman of the finance committee.
Re-elected in 1915, he became the senate president in 1916, a post he held until his death.
He was re-elected in 1919, but died before the legislature convened.


References


External links

Claude Cormier
Claude Cormier  (June 22, 1960 – September 15, 2023) was a Canadian landscape architect from Quebec.
The majority of his projects are located in Montreal and Toronto.
His landscape practice was founded in 1994.
In March 2022, the practice Claude Cormier + associes became CCxA in light of new partners.


Biography
Claude Cormier studied History & Theory of Design at Harvard University, Landscape Architecture at the University of Toronto, Agronomy at the University of Guelph, and established the firm CCxA (formerly Claude Cormier et Associés) in Montreal in 1994.
Over the years, the firm has been engaged to work on major public works in Montreal, Toronto, and the USA and has received more than 100 awards.
In 2010, the Harvard University Graduate School of Design organised an exclusive retrospective exhibition of the firm "Erratics".
In 2009, Cormier was Knighted to the Ordre National du Québec, the province's highest distinction for individuals who have contributed to the development and leadership of Quebec.
Cormier was also selected as an Emerging Voice for North America by the Architectural League of New York, as well as one of 14 international designers advancing the design field by Fast Company Magazine.
Last year the firm was invited by Phaidon Press to be featured in a publication as one of the top 30 worldwide Landscape architects in the world.
Serious Fun: The Landscapes of Claude Cormier, the first book exclusively dedicated to Claude Cormier's practice, was published in Fall 2021 at Oro editions.
Cormier died on September 15, 2023, at the age of 63, of multiple cancers caused by Li-Fraumeni syndrome.
In 2024, Claude Cormier was posthumously awarded the 2024 Governor General's Medal in Landscape Architecture (GGMLA) from the Canadian Society of Landscape Architects (CSLA).


Projects


Design philosophy
During his time at Harvard’s Graduate School of Design, Cormier studied the works of two "seemingly contradictory" landscape architects, Martha Schwartz and Frederick Law Olmsted.
He once described as main influences as "Martha is mom and Olmsted is dad".


Canada
Warehouse Campus Park, Edmonton (2022–)
Love Park (2018–2023), Toronto
The Ring, Place Ville Marie, June 2022, Montréal
RioCan Leaside Centre (2020–2024), Toronto
Leslie Slip Lookout Park (2020–2022), Toronto
Vaughan Metropolitan Centre and Smart VMC (2020–2022), Vaughan
Pensionnat Saint-Nom-de-Marie (2020–2022), Montréal
1 Square Phillips (2019–2023), Montréal
National Bank Headquarters (2019–2023), Montreal
The Well (2013–2023), Toronto
Draper Park (2022–), Toronto
Canadian Institute of the Blind (2015–2023), Edmonton
Cobe, West Don Lands (2018–2022), Toronto
St-Clair Block Development – Plan d'ensemble (2018–2022)
Garrison Point Condos – Plan d'ensemble (2012–2022), King West Village, Toronto
2-8 Gloucester (2018–2022), Toronto
88 Queen St East (2015–2022), Toronto
RCA-Lenoir (2020–), Montréal
175 Wynford-Don Valley Parkway (2020–), Toronto
King and Portland Development (2020), Toronto
Daniels Waterfront/City of the Arts (2020), Toronto Waterfront
Musée Pointe-à-Callière – Masterplan (2019), Montréal
592 Sherbourne Street/The Selby (2019), Toronto
Pôle Champlain – Proposition (2019), Ottawa
Pink Balls / 18 Shades of Gay (2011–2019), Montréal
700 St-Jacques (2018–), Montréal
Breakwater Park (2018), Kingston
River City Phase 3 (2018), Toronto
Dorchester Square  and Place du Canada (2008–2018), Montréal
Collège Ahuntsic (2018), Montréal
Vaughan Metropolitan Centre – Masterplan (2018), Vaughan
Vaughan Metropolitan Centre Bus Terminal Block (2013–), Vaughan
TOM I, II, III, IV (2012–2014, 2017), Musée des beaux-arts de Montréal, Montréal
Balade pour la paix (2017), Montréal
Parc Jean-Drapeau – Plan de mise en valeur et réaménagement (2017), Montréal
Jardin Frédéric Back du Musée des beaux-arts de Montréal (2017), Montréal
Cité archéologique Place d'Youville, Musée de Pointe-à-Callière (2017), Montréal
Berczy Park (2017), Toronto
National Holocaust Monument with Studio Daniel Libeskind and Edward Burtynsky (2017), Ottawa
Curtis Block (2016–), Calgary
Scrivener Square (2016–), Toronto
CIBC Commerce Court (2016–), Toronto
The Sony Centre for the Performing Arts and L-Tower (2016), Toronto
300 Front Street (2015), Toronto
Performing Arts Centre & Brock University School of Fine and Performing Arts (2015), St.
Catharines
117 Peter Street (2015), Toronto
Au grand dam (2015), Ville LaSalle
One The Esplanade (2014), Toronto
Le Château Appartements (2013), Montreal
Blue Stick Garden (1999–2013), Métis sur mer, Montreal, Winnipeg
Four Seasons Hotel and Residences (2012), Toronto
Clock Tower Beach (2012), Montreal
Parc Hydro-Québec (2012), Montreal
Canadian Centre for Architecture (1992–2010), Montreal
Sugar Beach (2010), Toronto
Evergreen Brickworks (2010), Toronto
Canadian Museum of History Plaza (2010), Gatineau
Benny Farm (2010), Montreal
Place d'Youville (2008), Montreal
HtO Urban Beach (2007), Toronto
Entrepôt Frigorifique – Masterplan (2006), Montreal
Université du Quebec à Montreal, Campus des sciences (2005), Montreal
Commissioners Park – Concept (2004), Toronto
Place des Arts – Masterplan (2003), Montreal
Lipstick Forest (2002), Montreal
Blue Lawn, Canadian Centre for Architecture (1997), Montreal
In Toronto, Cormier won two design competitions for the Sugar Beach project and for the HtO project.


USA and abroad
Cascade Park (2021), Chicago (USA)
Buchwald Plaza (2019), Mount Vernon (USA)
Rice University – Masterplan (2019), Houston (USA)
Blue Forest, Nissan Design America (2007), Detroit and La Jolla (USA)
Pergola, Biennale d'art contemporain (2006), Le Havre (France)
Blue Tree, Cornerstone Festival of Architectural Gardens (2005), Sonoma (USA)
Blue Stick Garden (2005), Chicago (USA)
Blue Stick Garden, Hestercombe Gardens (2004), Taunton (England)
Solange (2003), Lyon (France)
International Mosaïcultures of Montréal – Masterplan (2003), Dubaï, UAE
Shanghai's Montreal Garden (2000), Shanghai (China)
Red Lawn, Schindler House MAK Center (1999), Los Angeles (USA)


References


External links
"Claude Cormier, Landscape Architect With a Playful Eye, Dies at 63".
The New York Times.
October 8, 2023.
Retrieved October 10, 2023.

Lois Gunden
Lois Gunden (February 25, 1915 – August 27, 2005) was the fourth of five Americans to be recognized as Righteous Among the Nations by Yad Vashem, the Shoah Martyrs' and Heroes' Remembrance Authority of Israel.
Working for the Mennonite Central Committee, she helped establish an orphanage and rescue mission for children in Southern France during World War II.
She rescued some children directly from Camp de Rivesaltes, an internment camp.

Gunden remained in France after having been considered an enemy alien.
The Germans arrested her in early 1943 and treated her like a diplomat until early 1944.
She was held in hotels until a prisoner exchange allowed for her release.
She returned to the United States in March 1944, and by the fall she returned to her position as a French professor at Goshen College, and later at Temple University.
She wrote a memoir about her experiences in Europe during the war.


Early life
Lois Mary Gunden was born on February 25, 1915, in Flanagan, Illinois to Agnes Albrecht and Christian Gunden.
Her family, with nine children, were Mennonites.
They moved to Goshen, Indiana to have their children educated at the college.
Seven of the nine children earned degrees.
She received her bachelor's degree in 1936 at Goshen College.
Three years later she received her master's degree from Peabody College.
Having majored in French, she took a position at Goshen College teaching the language.


World War II

Gunden joined the Mennonite Central Committee and on October 4, 1941, boarded the S.S.
Excambion in New York for Portugal, which was a neutral country at the time.
She traveled overland with another Mennonite woman through Spain and into Vichy France, ultimately arriving at Canet-en-Roussillon.
She worked for the Secours Mennonite aux Enfants (Mennonite Children's Rescue) beginning on October 22, 1941.
The Œuvre de secours aux enfants and the Quaker American Friends Service Committee also assisted in Gunden's efforts.
Some of the staff employed at the mission were also refugees.
Seeking to help children who needed shelter and care, she helped establish an orphanage and rescue mission.
Called the Ville St.
Christophe, it was located about 30 miles (48 km) north of the border with Spain.
The 20-room residence, in the town of Cante-Plage (now Canet-en-Roussillon), initially housed and cared for sixty children, some who were Jewish and others who were Spanish refugees from the Spanish Civil War.
The children, some of whom were "severely malnourished", had come from the Camp de Rivesaltes, an internment camp.
The children at the mission ranged from four years of age to sixteen.
The conditions at the crowded camp, located 12 miles (19 km) from Canet-en-Roussillon, were unhealthy and unsanitary.
Gunden said of the camp, "Sight of bunks with people sitting hunchbacked on them… dirty and bare kitchens… eagerness with which the children drank milk." The children generally had lice.
Their initial goals were to remove lice from the children's hair, bathe them, get the children on a proper diet, and improve their health.
Overwhelmed, the woman who had traveled with Gunden had a nervous breakdown and returned to the United States.
Several dozen children were later rescued from the internment camp by Gunden, sometimes with hard-fought approval from their parents.
This became an especially pressing concern in 1942 for Gunden to prevent children from being deported from the camps by the Germans.
Once the children were in better health, she wanted them to have typical childhoods, with chores, learning, and playing on the beach.
Gunden wrote her intention in her diary "May I show kindness and gentleness to the children that they do not get from others".
Mary Elmes, a Quaker relief worker, visited the mission regularly and gave Gunden helpful advice.
Elmes was aware of Nazi Germany's plans for Jews and kept Gunden informed of the potential risks and dangers.
Even though the Germans had begun mass murder in extermination camps using poisonous gas, it was not known.
Elmes was aware, though, of the movement of Jews to concentration camps where they would suffer starvation and extermination.
Thousands of Jews were sent from Rivesaltes to those deadly destinations.
Originally, the assumption was that once children were in better health, they would be returned to the internment camp, but once Gunden knew the Nazis' plans, she kept children at the mission.
She also took in Jewish children who were not ill or orphaned.
Generally, the Vichy French did not seem to keep tabs on children after they left the internment camp.
One of the children taken from Rivesaltes was Ginette (Drucker) Kalish, about 12 years old, from Paris.
Her father was transported in July 1942 to Auschwitz concentration camp by the Germans and Ginette and her mother were caught and taken to Rivesaltes.
Gunden convinced her mother to let Ginette be taken to the mission.
In another incident, a police officer came to arrest three children — Berthe, Claire, and Jacques Landesmann — intending to deport them.
Gunden used a series of stall tactics until at last the police officer gave up and did not return.
The Landesmann children survived the war.
By November 1942, when North Africa was stormed by American and British troops, she was considered an enemy alien and in January 1943, Germans arrested her and treated her like a diplomat.
She first stayed in a hotel in Southern France and then was transferred with two other Mennonite relief workers to another hotel in Baden-Baden with diplomats from North America.
The 140 people that stayed at the hotel included relief workers, journalists, and diplomats.
She was released as part of a prisoner exchange effort for German diplomats, arriving in New York City on March 15, 1944, on the Gripsholm.
Meanwhile, the children had been dispersed and hidden in numerous safe places.


After the war
After a lecture tour and teaching Spanish during the summer, Gunden resumed her position at Goshen College in the fall of 1944.
In 1945, Gunden published a memoir of her World War II experiences.
In 1958, having furthered her studies of the French language, she received a Ph.D.
from Indiana University.

Gunden was active in the Mennonite Church and she volunteered for other relief projects in Puerto Rico, Mexico, and in the United States.
At Goshen College, Gunden taught French and sat on its board of overseers.
She edited a national publication about women's missionary services and wrote a book entitled Women Liberated.
She also taught at Temple University.

On June 21, 1958, Gunden married Ernest Clemens, and became a stepmother to Clemens' daughter.
They lived together in Lansdale, Pennsylvania after the wedding.

She died on February 27, 2005, in Lansdale.
A girl that Gunden saved, Ginette Kalish, nominated her for the title of Righteous Among the Nations, which was awarded by Yad Vashem on February 27, 2013.


See also
Helga Holbek, Mary Elmes and Alice Resch, who with Gunden helped save Jewish and Spanish Civil War refugees, also earning the title Righteous Among the Nations


Notes


References


Bibliography
Gragg, Rod (2016).
My brother's keeper : Christians who risked all to protect Jewish targets of the Holocaust.
New York : Center Street.
ISBN 978-1-4555-6629-7.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: publisher location (link)


External links
Davis, Julie Hirschfeld (January 27, 2016).
"Obama to Honor Americans' Wartime Efforts to Save Jews During Holocaust".
New York Times.
""Women of Valor": Stories of Women Who Rescued Jews During the Holocaust -- Lois Gunden (United States)".
Yad Vashem.

Carcant
Carcant is a small settlement and a wind farm, near Heriot in the Scottish Borders area of Scotland.
A famous inhabitant of Carcant was Eric Liddell.


Etymology
Carcant is etymologically a Cumbric place-name.
The first element is cognate with Welsh caer 'fortification'.
The second might be can 'white', in which case the name means 'white fort'; but more likely it is cant 'edge of a circle', in this context probably meaning 'district, region, edge, border', thus giving 'fort of the region/border'.


See also
Clan Borthwick
List of places in the Scottish Borders


References


External links

Renewables Map: Carcant, Heriot, Scottish Borders
Scottish Natural Heritage: Windfarms in Scotland (March 2010
RCAHMS record of Carcant
RCAHMS record of Carcant Windfarm
British Listed Buildings: Carcant Bridge over Carcant Burn
Eric Liddell Image Gallery

National Register of Historic Places listings in Lyon County, Minnesota
This is a list of the National Register of Historic Places listings in Lyon County, Minnesota.
 It is intended to be a complete list of the properties and districts on the National Register of Historic Places in Lyon County, Minnesota, United States.
 The locations of National Register properties and districts for which the latitude and longitude coordinates are included below, may be seen in an online map.
There are 12 properties and districts listed on the National Register in the county.
          This National Park Service list is complete through NPS recent listings posted September 26, 2025.


Current listings
  


See also
List of National Historic Landmarks in Minnesota
National Register of Historic Places listings in Minnesota


References


External links

Minnesota National Register Properties Database Archived January 23, 2013, at the Wayback Machine—Minnesota Historical Society

Musica Studios
PT Musica Studios is an Indonesian music company based in Jakarta.
Known as Metropolitan Studios in the 1960s and then Musica Studios in the 1970s, Musica was founded by Yamin Widjaja, the owner of an electronics store.
Musica is one of the largest music companies in Indonesia.
Musical artists such as Noah (formerly known as Peterpan), have recorded on the Musica label.


History
Starting from the work of Yamin Widjaja (Amin) as an electronics store owner and record album distributor who opened an outlet in the Pasar Baru area, that's where the long history of the largest recording industry in Indonesia began.
The electronics store and record distributor was founded in the early 60's under the name Eka Sapta store.
Pak Amin Cengli--as he is usually called Yamin Widjaja--accidentally got acquainted with many famous people in the music world, including songs by Bing Slamet, Ireng Maulana, Eteng Tanamal and Idris Sardi.
It was this association around music people that eventually became the inspiration for the birth of the band name Eka Sapta.
As an electronics store owner and record distributor who co-founded Eka Sapta's band, Amin went further by establishing his own record company.
At first he borrowed a recording equipment owned by the Remaco company, made recordings in Singapore and built his own recording studio under the name PT Warung Tinggi in the Warung Kopi area of Jakarta.
The company initially produced a number of records, including the album Titiek Puspa.
This PT Warung Tinggi was the embryo of the establishment of PT Metropolitan Studio on September 9, 1968.
Hoki Amin Cengli--the father of 6 children and wife Lanni Djajanegara--is growing.
At first it produced the recording band Eka Sapta, songs and sounds recorded by Bing Slamet, A.
Riyanto and a number of other recordings in the form of LPs (PH) and cassettes.
Along with the success of the recording debut, in October 1971, Amin changed the name of PT Metropolitan Studio to PT Musica Studio in the form of a formal record company establishment deed.
Since then, the recording company's software and hardware have been improving, for example from the number of recording studios which were only 2 with 4 tracks each in 1968 to 8 tracks in 1979, growing again to 16 tracks in 1981 and 24 tracks in 1983.
Now there are many recording studios located in the PT Musica Studio complex on Jl.
Perdatam Pasar Minggu, South Jakarta, opened 5 pieces.
As the largest recording company in Indonesia, Musica Studio immediately innovates in the work pattern of production management.
Improved human resources, increased production quality of recorded albums.
When Yamin Widjaja died in August 1979, his wife Mrs.
Lanni Djajanegara along with 4 of her 6 children took over the control, becoming the backbone of the recording 'business empire' of PT.
Music Studio.
The four sons and daughters are Sendjaja Widjaja, Indrawati Widjaja, Tinawati Widjaja and Effendy Widjaja.
Under this quartet of hands-on recording workers, PT Musica Studio has developed into a giant music empire in Indonesia, which has succeeded in bringing young musicians to become famous artists in Indonesia.
Prior to that, PT Musica Studio was also supported by other Widjaja families, namely Seniwati Widjaja and Sundari Widjaja.


Imprints
Musica
HP Records
HP Music
CMM (Cipta Mitra Musik)
NUR (Nada Utama Records)
NPS Records
Maheswara Musik Records (Pop, Rock, and Dangdut specialty label)
Music Plus
Siranada
FireFly Records (indie music specialty label)
GP Records (Graha Prima Swara)


Artist


Bands
Noah
D'Masiv
Nidji
Geisha
Kahitna
ZeroSix Park
Satria the Monster
Stereowall
Caessaria
Peraukertas
Thirteen
Manusia Aksara
Black Horses
Hikayat
Dreane
Alessa


Soloists
Iwan Fals
Maizura
Shakira Jasmine
Stevan Pasaribu
Zara Leola
Giring Ganesha
Segara
Rheno Poetiray
Adlani Rambe
Christie
Difki Khalif
Rahardian
Pasha Chrisye
Yuna (Malaysia)


See also
Lists of record labels


References


External links
Official website

Melanie Jans
Melanie Jans (born July 3, 1973) is a Canadian former professional squash player who represented Canada.
She reached a career-high world ranking of World No.
25 in March 1999 after having joined the Women's International Squash Players Association in 1991.
After retiring from professional sport, JANS joined Club Meadowvale in Mississauga as the Club Pro.
Since January 2018 Melanie has been the Oakville Club squash professional.
In 2015 JANS was inducted in to the Ontario Squash Hall of Fame, and subsequently inducted in the Canadian Squash Hall of Fame in 2022.


References


External links
Melanie Jans at Squash Info

G. K. Mani
Govindapadi Kanthasami Mani, popularly known as G.
K.
Mani, is an Indian politician from Tamil Nadu.
He served the honorary president of Pattali Makkal Katchi, a caste-based political party in Tamil Nadu, from 1997 to 2022.
G.K.
Mani's official title of honorary president was proposed by PMK founder Dr.
S.
Ramadoss during the party's general body meeting on 31 December 1997 for President's post in PMK.
Later the same year, he was  elected by votes for the PMK's President.
    
G.
K.
Mani, was born in Govindapadi Village, Kolathur, Salem District, and belongs to the Vanniyar community.
His involvement in social work began as teacher in a Govt.
Aided School in his village.
He subsequently joined the Social Service Society (SSS), which was later merged with the Vanniyar Sangam, a social organization founded by Dr.
S.
Ramadoss that aimed to provide the Vanniyar community with social and economic mobility.

In 1984, G.
K.
Mani, was first one to be elected as Union Chairman for Kolathur under the Vanniyar Sangam Banner.
He is the first political representative from Vanniyar Sangam even before the PMK party was formed, and is currently a member of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from Pennagaram constituency, having been elected most recently in the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly Elections.
He has represented Pennagaram three times; he was first elected in 1996, reelected in 2001, and again 2021.
He was also elected  one time from Mettur constituency in 2006.
He remains an active leader in the affairs of the Pattali Makkal Katchi and in the Vanniyar community more generally.


References


Further reading
"G.
K.
Mani surrenders".
The Hindu.
26 November 2002.
Archived from the original on 25 January 2013.
"G K Mani re-elected PMK President".
OneIndia.
"Stalin copying Anbumani's campaign style: G.K.
Mani".
The Hindu.
27 September 2015.
Retrieved 29 March 2016.
"PMK regrets Ilavarasan's tragic death, says G K Mani".
The New Indian Express.
Archived from the original on 10 April 2016.
Retrieved 29 March 2016.
"PMK leader urges Siddharamaiah to seek stay on Karnataka High Court order".
The Deccan Chronicle.
Retrieved 29 March 2016.
"PMK asks EC to probe into Vaiko allegations".
The Decaan Chronicle.
Retrieved 29 March 2016.

Mushavan
Mushavan (Armenian: Մուշավան, formerly known as Tsornatap, Shorbulakh and Mushakan), is a neighbourhood in the Erebuni District of the Armenian capital Yerevan.


References
Mushavan at GEOnet Names Server

Radiodifusión Argentina al Exterior
RAE Argentina al Mundo (English: RAE Argentina to the World), previously known as Radiodifusión Argentina al Exterior or RAE, is Argentina's state-owned international broadcaster, which uses shortwave, satellite and the Internet.


History
RAE was founded on April 11, 1949, by then Argentine President, Juan Perón, as SIRA "Servicio Internacional de la República Argentina" (SIRA, International Service of the Republic of Argentina).
SIRA broadcast 24 hours a day in seven languages.
After the military coup of September 1955, which removed Perón from power, SIRA was shut down by the new authorities.
 The station was relaunched as "Radiodifusión Argentina al Exterior'" ("Argentine Radio Broadcast Abroad"), on February 12, 1958.
RAE is operated by LRA1 Radio Nacional, Argentina's state radio network.
The shortwave transmitter is located in General Pacheco, near the city of Buenos Aires; the station broadcasts its programs from the studios of LRA Radio Nacional in Buenos Aires.
In September 2016, RAE changed its name from Radiodifusión Argentina al Exterior to RAE Argentina al Mundo.


Present
The programs that RAE broadcasts focus on Argentine news, culture, geography, history, and music, among other subjects.
Music on RAE varies from Argentine folkloric (usually gaucho and indigenous fare) and tango music, to Argentine pop music.
The station broadcasts in seven languages: Spanish, German, French, English, Italian, Portuguese, Chinese and Japanese.
RAE used to broadcast in Arabic, until Arabic programming was cancelled by station management some time ago; one of RAE's opening jingles still has an Arabic introduction.
RAE also broadcasts programs from its principal channel, Radio Nacional, so that Argentines abroad can get in touch with current events from their homeland.
Among the programs broadcast from Radio Nacional are news program "Panorama Nacional de Noticias", and professional football matches from Argentina's professional leagues.


References


External links
Official website

Lakhra Tehsil
Lakhra is an administrative subdivision (tehsil) in  Lasbela District, located in the southeastern part of Balochistan, Pakistan.
As per the 2023 national census, Lakhra has a population of 46,744, residing in 201 settlements in rural areas.
The town of Lakhra functions as the tehsil's administrative centre.
The region remains largely disconnected from major transport networks and suffers from inadequate electricity infrastructure.


Geography
Covering an area of approximately 1,954 square kilometres, Lakhra is bordered by Awaran District to the west, Bela Tehsil to the north, Uthal Tehsil to the east, and Liari Tehsil to the south.
The terrain is mostly flat and arid, interspersed with low hills traversed and seasonal streams.
Lakhra experiences subtropical desert climate (Köppen: BWh), characterised by extremely hot summers, with average highs around 42 °C (108 °F), and mild winters with daytime highs of 16 °C (61 °F) and nighttime  lows dropping to 3 °C (37 °F).
Annual rainfall is minimal, averaging just over 13 millimetres (0.51 in), mainly during monsoon season from August to September.
Vegetation is sparse and adapt to arid conditions, including thorny shrubs, ephemeral grasses, and hardy bushes, occasional trees.


Impact of 2022 Floods
The 2022 floods in Balochistan were particularly devastating in Lakhra resulting in the destruction of homes, businesses and roads.
The disaster exacerbated existing challenges in infrastructure and electricity delivery, with long-term effects on livelihoods and mobility.


Population
 According to 2023 census, Tehsil had 46,744 population living in 7,378 households.
Development indicators reveal substantial challenges, particularly in education.
Lakhra records the lowest literacy rate in Lasbela District at 15.31%, with male literacy at 22.87% and female literacy at only 7.50%.
These figures reflect gender disparities and limited access to educational facilities, especially for women and girls.


Languages
In Lakhra Tehsil, Balochi is the predominant language, spoken by approximately 36,625 individuals (~78.4% of the population).
Other languages include Sindhi (7,012 speakers, ~15%), and Brahui (672 speakers, ~1.4%), with the remaining population speaking various other languages.
It is important to note that the Sindhi reported in this context largely refers to Lasi, a distinct local dialect of Sindhi also spoken in the costal region of Balochistan.


References and notes


Explanatory notes


References

2015 FINA Women's Water Polo World League
The 2015 FINA Women's Water Polo World League is played between November 2014 and June 2015 and open to all women's water polo national teams.
After participating in a preliminary round, eight teams qualify to play in a final tournament, called the Super Final in Shanghai, China from 09–14 June 2015.
In the world league, there are specific rules that do not allow matches to end in a draw.
 If teams are level at the end of the 4th quarter of any world league match, the match will be decided by a penalty shootout.
Teams earn points in the standings in group matches as follows:

Match won in normal time - 3 points
Match won in shootout - 2 points
Match lost in shootout - 1 point
Match lost in normal time - 0 points


Europe


Preliminary round
The European preliminary round consisted of two group of four teams.
The winner of each group after the home and away series of games qualified for the Super Final.


Group A


Group B


Intercontinental Qualification Tournament


Preliminary round


Group A


Group B


Knockout stage


Quarterfinals


Semifinals


3rd Place


Final


5th-8th Places


5th-8th Places Semifinals


7th Place


5th Place


Super Final
In the Super Final the eight qualifying teams are split into two groups of four teams with all teams progressing to the knock-out stage.
The games were played in Shanghai, China from 9 to 14 June 2015.


Preliminary round


Group A


Group B


Knockout stage


Quarterfinals


5th-8th Places


5th-8th Places Semifinals


7th Place


5th Place


Finals


Semifinals


3rd Place


Final


Final ranking


References

Greenodd railway station
Greenodd railway station was on the route between Ulverston and Lakeside, built by the Furness Railway.
It served the village of Greenodd, then in Lancashire and now in Cumbria, England, and trains were withdrawn from 30 September 1946 but was not officially closed until 1955.
Train movements through the station continued until 1965, with the closure of the line to Lakeside.
A section of the line has reopened as part of the Lakeside and Haverthwaite Railway, but the station itself has since been demolished and the trackbed between itself and to the south towards Ulverston used for road improvements.
However, if you walk down by the embankment of the estuary, you will see the east side platform buried underneath the road grass verge, with some remnants of the back wall and shelter building visible as well.


References

Robinson, Peter W.
(2002).
Cumbria's Lost Railways.
Catrine: Stenlake Publishing.
ISBN 978-1-84033-205-6.


Further reading
"A Furness Locomotive Conversion".
Notes and News.
The Railway Magazine.
Vol.
90, no.
553.
London: Tothill Press Limited.
March–April 1944.
pp.
300 & 312.

Bruce Ridge
Bruce Ridge (born January 1, 1964) is an American symphonic bassist and arts advocate.
He is the former chairman of the International Conference of Symphony and Opera Musicians (ICSOM)[1] and a member of the North Carolina Symphony.
In 2014, he was re-elected to a fifth term as ICSOM Chairman, making him the longest-serving Chair in the organization's history [2] Ridge served as ICSOM Chair from 2006 until August, 2016.
In 2008, Ridge was invited by the Federation International des Musiciens to address the first International Orchestra Conference in Berlin, Germany.
He was also invited to speak at the Second International Orchestra Conference in Amsterdam [3], as well as the third International Conference in Oslo.
In March 2009, he was invited to testify before the United States Congress during a hearing on the Economic and Employment Impact of the Arts and Music Industry [4].
Ridge's speeches and articles have been published in numerous countries, and he has been quoted in newspapers across the United States, as well as in the American Foreign Press.
As chairman of ICSOM, Ridge became an international leader on issues affecting arts organizations and met with countless orchestras across America, from San Juan to Honolulu.
He served as a faculty member for many sessions of the League of American Orchestras "Orchestra Leadership Academy" as well as on the faculty for the League's music director search seminars.
He has appeared as a guest speaker on the history of symphony orchestras in America at The Colburn School of Music in Los Angeles and Roosevelt University in Chicago.
Ridge began his professional career when he joined the Virginia Symphony at the age of 15, becoming the youngest member in the history of the orchestra.
He later studied at the Curtis Institute of Music and the New England Conservatory of Music, where he graduated with Distinction in Performance honors.
He has performed at Tanglewood, Interlochen, the Grand Teton Music Festival, and with the orchestras of Charleston (SC), Jacksonville, and Honolulu.
Ridge is believed to be just the second musician from a major American symphony orchestra to chair a music director search.
He has also served on grant panels for the National Endowment for the Arts, and as a member of the City of Raleigh Arts Commission.
Ridge's double bass teachers include Lawrence Wolfe of the Boston Symphony, and Roger Scott of the Philadelphia Orchestra.
He also performs on
the bass guitar and solo jazz bass for the North Carolina Symphony Pops series.
He has recorded two albums of original folk rock compositions.
On March 8, 2016, Ridge announced that he would step down as ICSOM Chair following the August, 2016 ICSOM Conference in Washington, DC, ending his tenure as the organization's longest serving Chairperson.
[5]
In 2018, Ridge published a book of his writings as ICSOM Chair, titled Last Year's Words, and Next Year's Voices: Essays and Speeches from a Decade as Chairman of the International Conference of Symphony and Opera Musicians  [6]
In August 2019, Ridge was invited to deliver the keynote address at the conference of the Symphony Orchestra Musicians Association of Australia, sponsored by the Media Entertainment and Arts Alliance, in Sydney, Australia [7]


Arts advocacy
September 2008 interview with Polyphonic.org [8]
January, 2008 Editorial on the Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra lockout in the Florida Times-Union [9]
April, 2011 guest editorial in the Syracuse Post-Standard,[10]
March, 2011 address to 2nd International Orchestra Conference, hosted by Federation International des Musiciens, Amsterdam [11]
September, 2013 editorial in the Minneapolis Star-Tribune on the Minnesota Orchestra Lockout [12]
August, 2019 keynote address to the Symphony Orchestra Musicians Association of Australia [13]


Media profiles
Feature profile in the Virginian-Pilot, August, 2009 [14]
Feature in the Houston Chronicle, August, 2010 [15]
Feature in the Chicago Tribune, August 22, 2012 [16]
Q&A: National musicians’ leader Bruce Ridge on ASO’s future and necessity for “positive message” [17]

Three Brooks Local Nature Reserve
The Three Brooks Nature Reserve is a Local Nature Reserve of approximately 44 hectares (110 acres) in Bradley Stoke, South Gloucestershire, England.
It is named after the Hortham, Patchway, and Stoke Brooks which run through it, meeting at Three Brooks Lake before flowing eastwards back under the M4 motorway as Bradley Brook.
The town of Bradley Stoke was built in the 1980s on low-grade farmland, and a number of natural features such as Savage's Wood, Webb's Wood, and Sherbourne's Brake were incorporated into the town to form the Three Brooks Local Nature Reserve.
This tranquil area in the middle of the busy community of Bradley Stoke is made up of the three previously named bluebell woods, linked by an important wildlife corridor that includes brooks, ponds, areas of rough grassland, species-rich hedgerows, and a lake.
 The Lake is now part of the Frome Valley Relief Sewer.
The site is owned by the South Gloucestershire Council.


History
The woods on the nature reserve were used predominantly as sources of timber, although the original Sherbourne's Brake copse may have been used as a covert.
Webb's Wood particularly supplied coppiced timber and Savage's hornbeam and oak.
Savage's Wood was preserved during the 1940s and '50s as a nature reserve by the owner of Little Stoke Farm, Howard Davis, who, as the largest local farmer, owned the land up to and including the wood.
Davis was also one of the founders of the Wildfowl Trust at Slimbridge.
In the same area, Bradley Stoke Way cut a swathe through Savage's Wood when built, leaving a small remnant of the wood on the far side of the road next to Tesco's car park.
Much of the ash plantations nearby were planted in reparation for this disruption of the wood.


Habitats

The Three Brooks Local Nature Reserve comprises three bluebell woodlands; Webb's Wood, Savages's Wood, and Sherbourne's Brake.
New trees have been planted with funds from the Woodland Grant Scheme to help develop the Forest of Avon in South Gloucestershire.
The rich mix of habitats provides a valuable home to a wide range of wildlife, including reed buntings, skylarks, great crested newts, and slowworms.
The Three Brooks Lake attracts ducks throughout the year and has provided breeding sites for little grebes, reed warblers, sedge warblers, and mute swans.
The feature known as the tump is new, made up mainly of spill from the Second Severn Crossing.
It provides a habitat for skylarks and other birds which are thought to have bred there.
The community orchard was planted with various fruit trees, bushes, and wild flowers to provide pollen and nectar for insects within the reserve as well as to provide natural resources for the local community, such as fruit.


Conservation
The nature reserve is cared for by local residents who have set up a conservation group, the Three Brooks Nature Conservation Group, that is open to the public and meets on the first Saturday of each month to help manage the reserve.
The group organises a range of events and practical workdays to help raise awareness of the nature reserve and to enhance its biodiversity.
These range from bat walks to traditional woodland management like coppicing and ditch-clearing.
The BTCV's (British Trust for Conservation Volunteers) have a 'green gym' at the nature reserve.


Wildlife

In 2014 a Bio Blitz was held and over 36 hours 617 species were identified on the reserve.

Birds: The reserve is home to reed buntings, skylarks, and during the breeding season, you might spot little grebes, reed warblers, and sedge warblers.
The Three Brooks Lake is a hotspot for ducks throughout the year and has also been a breeding site for mute swans.
Amphibians: Great crested newts find a safe haven here, thriving in the pond areas
Reptiles: Slow worms


Access
There are several main access points into the reserve, all with well-surfaced paths.
The sign-posted network of cycle paths goes throughout the reserve for people to view the many different habitats.
In 2019 over 500m of woodland paths at the northern end of the reserve in Savages and Primrose woods were upgraded.
These paths link into existing surfaced paths creating circular walks.
The stone dust path improvements used an environmentally friendly no-dig, cell web specification, to provide all year round accessibility, which in turn reduced the trampling impact on ground flora and will also protect the adjacent woodland tree roots from compaction.
Behind the Leisure Centre a disabled gate was installed to give those using mobility scooters greater access to Savages Wood.
The gate is open to walkers but a Radar key is required to open it fully.
In 2020 further path improvements were made to paths between Savages Wood and Bowsland meadow.


See also
Bradley Stoke Community School


References


Bibliography
Landscape of the Past: the hidden heritage of Bradley Stoke, Sharon Ubank, 1998, printed by Cromwell Press, Trowbridge, Wiltshire
The Farmer and the Goose with the Golden Eyes, Martin Davis, 2009, published by Redcliffe Press, Bristol  ISBN 978-1-906593-37-7


External links
Three Brooks Nature Conservation Group Site
"Map of Three Brooks".
Local Nature Reserves.
Natural England.
Three Brooks nature reserve | BETA - South Gloucestershire Council

Etto (disambiguation)
Etto may refer to:

Etto (born 1981; Oélilton Araújo dos Santos), Brazilian soccer player
Saint Etto (died 660); see Chronological list of saints in the 7th century
etto (unit), a Sumatran traditional unit of measurement for length; see Indonesian units of measurement
etto- (prefix), a non-standard metric prefix for 102
-etto (suffix), an Italian language suffix for creating an Italian name using Italian grammar diminutive creation; see List of diminutives by language
Etto principle, the efficiency–thoroughness trade-off principle]


See also

EETO
Etoo (disambiguation)
ETO (disambiguation)
Etta (disambiguation)
Ette (disambiguation)
Etty (disambiguation), including Etti

2023 NCAA Division III women's basketball tournament
The 2023 NCAA Division III women's basketball tournament was the tournament hosted by the NCAA to determine the national champion of Division III women's college basketball in the United States for the 2022–23 season.
It featured 64 teams.
During the 2022–23 academic year, the NCAA organized many events to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the enactment of Title IX, federal legislation outlawing sex discrimination in higher education.
As part of this celebration, the NCAA scheduled the women's basketball championship games of all three of its divisions at the site of the 2023 Division I Final Four.
Accordingly, the championship game was held on April 1, 2023, at the American Airlines Center in Dallas.
The national semifinals were played at Oosting Gymnasium at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut on March 18.
This scheduling also created an unusually long break in the tournament.
Normally, the national championship game is played one or two days after the semifinals, but this year's final took place 14 days after the semifinals.


Tournament schedule and venues


Regionals
The first and second rounds took place at campus sites from March 3–4, 2023.
Teams were sent to one of 16 locations, each hosted by one team from the group of four.
The third and fourth rounds (sectional semifinals and finals) also took place at campus sites from March 10–11, 2023.
Teams were sent to the home arena of one of the four teams remaining in their sectional bracket.


Final Four
The national semifinals and finals were held at predetermined sites: the former at the Oosting Gymnasium at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut, on March 18, and the latter at the American Airlines Center in Dallas.
The national championship was played on April 1, 2023, in Dallas, which was also the host of the 2023 NCAA Division I women's basketball tournament Final Four.


Qualifying
A total of sixty-four bids were available for the tournament: Forty-four automatic bids—awarded to the champions of the 44 NCAA-recognized Division III conference tournaments—and 20 at-large bids.
While this is the first season for the newly established Collegiate Conference of the South, its conference tournament champion will not be eligible for an automatic bid until 2024.
This was also the final year that the Colonial States Athletic Conference and United East Conference receive separate bids; the two conferences will merge ahead of the 2023–24 season, consolidating their bids into one, although the name and legacy of the combined conference have not yet been announced.
It was also the final year for the New England Collegiate Conference as an all-sports league.
After steady losses of membership in recent years, it had only four members in the 2022–23 season.
All four would join other conferences for 2023–24 and beyond.


Automatic bids (44)


Brackets
Source


Upper Left


Bottom Left


Upper Right


Bottom Right


Final Four


Sectional hosting controversy
When sectional hosts were announced on March 5, there was some controversy as three of the four hosts were placed in the state of Massachusetts and all four in the Eastern Time Zone.
Most of the controversy came when Tufts, with its 21–6 regular season record, was granted hosting rights over 26–1 Trinity (TX), with top seed Christopher Newport unable to host due to the men's sectional being held at CNU the same weekend.
 Three teams would have to travel via air regardless of where the pod was placed, an unusual occurrence for a Division III sectional.
 D3sports.com's Pat Coleman observed "[Division III] Texas teams get screwed so often [by the NCAA], in every sport.
This was a chance for a makeup call that was sorely missed, and it's an example Texas teams can point to and say, even when the number of flights is equal, we still get screwed."  Further analysis by Coleman showed a long-standing NCAA policy to deny sectional hosts in Texas or the larger Region 10 (which also includes the states of Colorado, California, Oregon, and Washington).
Since the sectional concept was introduced to the men's and women's tournaments in 2000, there had been 84 sectionals in each tournament through the 2023 editions.
On the women's side, no Region 10 school had hosted a sectional since 2014, and the previous Region 10 host had done so in 2008, meaning that only one of the past 56 sectionals had been held in Region 10.
The perceived snubbing of Region 10 was even greater in the men's tournament; only one sectional had been held in Region 10, with none since 2004.


See also
2023 NCAA Division I women's basketball tournament
2023 NCAA Division II women's basketball tournament
2023 NAIA women's basketball tournament
2023 NCAA Division III men's basketball tournament


References

Karen Kilgariff
Karen Kilgariff (born May 11, 1970, in Petaluma, California) is an American writer, comedian, singer, author, actress, television producer, and podcast host.
She began her career as a stand-up comedian in the early 1990s and later became a television actress, most notably as a cast member on Mr.
Show.
She has written for many comedy television shows, including being the head writer on The Rosie Show, The Ellen DeGeneres Show and The Pete Holmes Show.
Since 2016, she has co-hosted the true crime comedy podcast My Favorite Murder along with Georgia Hardstark.
In 2018, she and Hardstark co-founded the podcast network Exactly Right.
Along with Hardstark, Kilgariff wrote the non-fiction book Stay Sexy and Don't Get Murdered, which was released on May 28, 2019.


Early life
Karen Kilgariff grew up outside Petaluma, California with her mother Patricia (née Knight), who died in 2016, her father Jim, and her older sister Laura.
Both of Karen's parents worked; her father was a San Francisco firefighter and her mother was a head psychiatric nurse at the Langley Porter Psychiatric Institute.
She attended St.
Vincent de Paul High School in Petaluma.


Career


Stand-up and acting
Karen Kilgariff started out as a stand-up comedian in Sacramento in the 1990s.
She went on to land comedy roles on television, including being a cast member on seasons 3 and 4 of Mr.
Show.
She would later appear in the 2015 reboot, W/ Bob & David, as well.
She played the role of Jean Pettengill for five episodes of The Book Group in 2003.
In 2015, Kilgariff teamed up with Drennon Davis to record a live album of comedy songs titled I Don't Care, I Like It.


Writing career
In 2003, Kilgariff was hired by Ellen DeGeneres to help write for her comedy special, Ellen DeGeneres: Here and Now.
Kilgariff later toured with DeGeneres as her opening act.
Kilgariff was then named head writer for the day time talk show The Ellen DeGeneres Show, which launched in September 2003.
She occasionally appeared on screen in sketches and other segments.
She was also part of a comic duo (with Mary Lynn Rajskub) called Girls Guitar Club.
Kilgariff served as the head writer for The Rosie Show, which aired on the Oprah Winfrey Network.
She later served as the head writer for The Pete Holmes Show, which aired on TBS.
She also wrote for and starred in truTV's Talk Show: The Game Show and produced Making History on FOX Broadcasting Company.
Kilgariff wrote four episodes for FX’s comedy-drama Baskets between 2017 and 2019.


Podcast hosting
In 2014, Kilgariff started a podcast with comedian Chris Fairbanks called Do You Need A Ride?.
The podcast originally took place entirely in a car, where Karen and Chris would speak to their guest while driving around.
Citing safety concerns, however, they now occasionally record at the Exactly Right Studios.
In 2016, Kilgariff and Georgia Hardstark started the true-crime podcast My Favorite Murder, in which they discuss various infamous murders and serial killers.
Since its inception, the podcast has garnered a large fan base, totaling over 19 million listeners.
They have also toured the United States and internationally performing My Favorite Murder live shows.
In 2018, she and Hardstark co-founded the podcast network Exactly Right, which now produces their podcast along with ten others.
In April 2019, the network's first original podcast Jensen and Holes: The Murder Squad debuted at number one.
In 2019, Kilgariff and Hardstark published Stay Sexy and Don't Get Murdered, a joint memoir.
In 2025, Kilgariff won the IHeartRadio Best Overall Ensemble award, for her podcast My Favorite Murder.


Personal life
Kilgariff does not drink alcohol, and has been open about her past struggles with abuse of amphetamines and diet pills.
In an interview with Marc Maron for his WTF podcast, she said she stopped using drugs and alcohol completely after she began having seizures, fearing her drug use had been the cause.
Karen now lives in Studio City, California with her dogs, Frank and Blossom.
Kilgariff married at age 32 and is now divorced.


Discography
In 2014, Kilgariff recorded a musical comedy album Live at the Bootleg.


References


External links
Karen Kilgariff at IMDb
Karen Kilgariff on Twitter
"In 'Bootleg,' Kilgariff Sets Her Comic Commentary To Music" on National Public Radio
"10 Weird Questions with Karen Kilgariff" from Man Cave Daily
Interview with Karen Kilgariff in Nailed
My Favorite Murder on Midroll Archived November 10, 2017, at the Wayback Machine

Dunbrody Country House Hotel
Dunbrody Country House Hotel (also referred to as Dunbrody Country House Hotel and Restaurant) is an Irish Georgian manor-turned-restaurant in County Wexford, owned by Irish chef Kevin Dundon and his wife Catherine.
It is located near the village of Arthurstown.


History
Formerly associated with the Marquess of Donegall, Dunbrody House was built in the early 19th century.
The house was sold in the mid-1990s and renovated between 1999 and 2001.
Dunbrody Country House Hotel was opened by 2001.


Media coverage
An October 2001 review in The Sunday Business Post described Dunbrody Country House Hotel and Restaurant as a building which is "beautifully proportioned" and similar in style to that of Queen Anne.
In the same article, Ross Golden Bannon gave a negative review of his and his compatriots' "depressing" experience at Dunbrody Country House Hotel and Restaurant.
He bemoaned the fact that himself and his accomplices had to pour their own wine, implying that a restaurant of this calibre ought to employ wine pourers, and complained that the food was overcooked and too salty.
Dunbrody Country House Hotel and Restaurant has also been covered in the Italian media.


Awards
Dunbrody County House Hotel and Restaurant has won the Bushmills Guide Restaurant of the Year 2004, the Jameson Guide Breakfast of the Year 2004 and three RAC Dining Awards.
It has been awarded Restaurant of the Year three times, in 2004, 2005 and 2006.


References


External links
Official site

Harvard University Department of History
The Department of History at Harvard University (also known as the Harvard History Department) is a department of history located in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States.
The school offers bachelor's degrees in history, master's degrees in history, doctorate degrees in history, and a certificate in digital history.
The department ranks as one of the top history departments in the United States and the world.


History
The Harvard History Department is one of the oldest departments focused on historical studies in the United States.
As early as 1643, Harvard College required its students to allocate one hour per week to the study of history.
Between the mid-1600s and the early 1800s, the subject remained a minor part of the curriculum.
In 1839, the university established the McLean Professorship of Ancient and Modern History, the nation's second dedicated history professorship after Cornell University.
The chair strengthened the study of history on campus as a distinct discipline worthy of financial investment.
Historian, educator, and Unitarian minister, Jared Sparks, held the position between 1839 and 1849, delivering a dozen lectures before the Lowell Institute in Boston in 1842.
Sparks played a role in requiring a matriculation examination in Ancient History and Geography.

By the late 1800s, Harvard paved the way for the professionalization of the study of history at the graduate level by awarding its first Doctor of Philosophy in history in 1873.
In the 1880s and 1890s, the graduate program trained professional historians, teachers, and statesmen alike such Henry Cabot Lodge who, in 1876, completed his dissertation titled "The Anglo-Saxon Land Law." Members of the department also played a foundational role in creating the American Historical Association in the 1880s, the premier scholarly association for historians in the United States.
During this period, W.E.B.
Du Bois earned his Ph.D.
in history from the department in 1895, becoming the first African American to earn a doctorate from Harvard.
His dissertation title was "Suppression of the African Slave Trade in the United States of America, 1638-1871".
In the 1910s, Frederick Jackson Turner, well-known for his "Frontier Thesis," joined the faculty, coming from the University of Wisconsin.
He taught at Harvard until 1924 and influenced the study of American history.
Many others joined him in furthering the department as one of the hubs for the study of the American past.
Arthur M.
Schlesinger Sr.
arrived in 1924.
He pushed the department, which in turn influenced the broader historical profession, towards social history, emphasizing the study of everyday life and social movements.
He was later joined by his son, Arthur M Schlesinger Jr., an intellectual historian who also served as an advisor to President John F.
Kennedy.
John K.
Fairbank, a historian of China, came in 1924 and helped build a center for East Asian Studies that is now named after him (Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies).
Edwin O.
Reischauer built on Fairbank's focus on global and non-Western historian by expanding the curriculum to include Japanese history.
Additionally, Helen Maud Cam, a medieval historian from Cambridge University, became the first woman to hold a tenured professorship at Harvard in 1948.
Other notable historians who joined the department during the twentieth century include Carter G.
Woodson, one of the founders of African American historiography, Bernard Bailyn, a Pulitzer Prize winner and historian of the American Revolution, and Oscar Handlin, who pioneered the history of immigration.
During the 2000s, the department's foremost civil war historian, Drew Gilpin Faust, became Harvard's first female president after leading the Radcliffe Institute.


Academics
The Harvard University Department of History is home to some of the world's leading and most renowned scholars in history.
The department focuses on multiple areas within history "including social life, the economy, culture, thought, and politics.
Students of history study individuals, groups, communities, and nations from every imaginable perspective." The department also runs the History of Science program, which "deals with important questions about the rise and impact of science, medicine, and technology, both east and west, and at all periods, including the very recent past."
Undergraduate students can concentrate in history and receive an A.B.
degree.
Students are also able to take courses in joint-degree programs, including the Joint Concentration in Ancient History (Greek and Roman), the Joint Concentration in East Asian History, and the Joint Concentration in Near Eastern History.
Graduate students can work towards a M.A.
or Ph.D.
in history.
Students may also work towards a joint J.D.
/ Ph.D.
degree.
The department is affiliated with a number of research centers and programs at Harvard, including:

Center for Hellenic Studies
Charles Warren Center for Studies in American History
Harvard Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments
Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute
W.
E.
B.
Du Bois Institute
Weatherhead Center for International Affairs


Harvard and Slavery
The Harvard and Slavery initiative was established in 2006 in order to recognize and "research the historical connections between Harvard University and slavery".
The program began as Harvard and Slavery: Seeking a Forgotten History, which summarized undergraduate research linking the history of slavery to local history.
According to professor of history Sven Beckert, "We want to inspire others to dig deeper into this history, but even more so we want to encourage a broader debate on what this history means for us today." A report on the findings of this research (Full Report of the Findings of History 84G) was subsequently published in 2011.
They found that Harvard was supported by donations from a slave-based economy, affiliated with scholars who promoted ideas of scientific racism, and hired professors and students who owned slaves.
In 2016, then Harvard University President Drew Gilpin Faust and Congressman John Lewis unveiled a plaque dedicated to the memory of four enslaved people, Titus, Venus, Bilhah, and Juba, who worked at the university.
Scholars described this ceremony as an important step in recognizing the historic legacy of slavery.
In 2017, a memorial was built at Harvard Law School to honor "the enslaved whose labor created wealth that made possible the founding of the Harvard Law School." The next University President, Lawrence S.
Bacow, announced another $5 million would be invested to continue investigating Harvard's ties to slavery, led by Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Dean Tomiko Brown-Nagin.
In January 2025, Harvard University laid off the staff of the Harvard Slavery Remembrance Program, a team responsible for identifying the direct descendants of those enslaved by Harvard-affiliated administrators, faculty, and staff.
In response, Harvard history professor Vincent Brown resigned from the initiative.
In his resignation letter, he wrote that he "learned that the entire [HSRP] team had been laid off in sudden telephone calls with an office in Harvard's human resources department." According to the fired founding director of the remembrance program, Richard Cellini, the vice provost Sara Bleich had instructed him "not to find too many descendants." University officials announced that the efforts to connect with descendants will continue through a third party.


Rankings
The Department of History is frequently cited as one of the premier institutions for the study of history.
U.S.
News & World Report ranks the department at #4.
According to the QS World University rankings in history, Harvard has consistently ranked first among history faculties worldwide from 2020 to 2023.


Notable faculty


References

Brenden Dillon
Brenden Dillon (born November 13, 1990) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who is a defenceman for the New Jersey Devils of the National Hockey League (NHL).
Dillon has previously played in the NHL for the Dallas Stars, San Jose Sharks, Washington Capitals, and Winnipeg Jets.
Undrafted, and prior to turning professional, Dillon played four seasons of major junior ice hockey in the Western Hockey League (WHL) with the Seattle Thunderbirds.


Early life
Dillon was born on November 13, 1990, in Surrey, British Columbia, Canada to mother Debbie.
His father was born and raised in Portugal before he moved to Toronto, so Dillon can speak French and Portuguese.
His younger sister was a beach volleyball player for York University.


Playing career


Amateur
Growing up in Surrey, British Columbia, Dillon played volleyball, basketball, soccer, and track and field through elementary school and high school.
He attended a private Catholic elementary school and was named the top track athlete numerous times for the 100m, 200m, and long jump events.
At the age of 15, Dillon began summer training with Impact Hockey Development and earned a spot on the junior B Hope Icebreakers of the Pacific Junior Hockey League (PIJHL).
Standing at five-foot-two, Dillon went undrafted in the Western Hockey League (WHL) entry draft and spent one season in the PIJHL before being signed by the Seattle Thunderbirds.
Dillon spent four seasons with the Thunderbirds, collecting 85 points in 271 games.
On March 1, 2011, as an NHL free agent, Dillon signed a three-year, entry-level contract with the Dallas Stars.


Professional career


Dallas Stars
After signing his contract with the Stars, he was reassigned to their American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate, the Texas Stars, for the remainder of the 2010–11 season.
He played 10 games for the team, accumulating no points and eight penalty minutes.
He was invited to the Dallas Stars' training camp prior to the 2011–12 season but was reassigned to Texas on September 28.
After playing 31 games for Texas and recording two goals and 11 assists, Dillon was called up to the NHL level to replace an injured Sheldon Souray.
He saw no action during his recall and was subsequently reassigned back to Texas.
Dillon was called up again for the Dallas Stars' last game of the season and made his NHL debut on April 8, 2012, against the St.
Louis Blues.
He played in 19:59 of ice time and had a game-high six shots on goal, tied for a game-high four hits and co-led the Stars with three blocked shots.
Dillon ended the season with the Texas Stars, tied with Jordie Benn for most assists amongst team defencemen, as the Stars failed to qualify for the Calder Cup playoffs.
Due to the 2012–13 NHL lockout, Dillon began the season with the Texas Stars before joining Dallas once an agreement was reached.
On February 1, 2013, Dillon registered his first career Gordie Howe hat trick, meaning he recorded a fight, assist, and goal.
During that game, he also registered his first career assist and goal in a 4–3 shootout win against the Phoenix Coyotes.
Dillon was also selected for his first international appearance with Canada in the 2013 IIHF World Championship.
He scored one goal in eight games as Canada would lose in the quarterfinal to the eventual tournament champions Sweden.
The following season, Dillon spent his entire 2013–14 campaign with the Stars and set new career highs.
He finished the season with 17 points in 80 regular seasons games and his plus-minus rating ranked fourth amongst all NHL defencemen.
The two games he missed during the season was due to a lower-body injury.
On October 2, 2014, Dillon signed a one-year contract extension to remain with the Stars through the 2014–15 season.
Since his rookie season, Dillon was paired with Stephane Robidas on the left side but, once the player was traded to the Anaheim Ducks, Dillon was moved to the right side.


San Jose Sharks
On November 21, 2014, Dillon was traded to the San Jose Sharks in exchange for defenceman Jason Demers and a third-round pick in the 2016 NHL entry draft.
At the time of the trade, Dillon had recorded three assists in 20 games.
Upon joining the team, Dillon was paired with veteran Brent Burns and returned to his natural playing side.
Dillon finished the 2014–15 season with the Sharks, recording two goals and seven assists in 60 games.
On June 29, 2015, as pending restricted free agent, Dillon signed a five-year, $16.35 million contract extension with San Jose worth an average annual value of $3.27 million per season through to the end of the 2019–20 season.
In the first year of his new contract, Dillon recorded 11 points in 79 games.
In his third full season with the Sharks, Dillon broke out offensively and set new career-highs in assists and points.
On December 5, 2017, the NHL Department of Player Safety announced that Dillon was suspended one game for slashing Washington Capitals Madison Bowey.
Following the 2018–19 season, Dillon was the recipient of the Sharks' inaugural "Media Good Guy" Award as "a player who handles his media responsibilities with cooperation, honesty, and thoughtfulness, and answers the bell no matter the outcome or situation." He was also the Sharks' nominee for the King Clancy Memorial Trophy as a "National Hockey League player who best exemplifies leadership qualities on and off the ice and who has made a significant humanitarian contribution to his community." His nomination was based on his activism with the Sharks Foundation's Stick To Fitness program and the Sharks Foundation's Blacktop Resurfacing projects.


Washington Capitals
Following the 2019–20 season, with the Sharks out of playoff contention and playing in the final season of his contract, Dillon was traded to the Washington Capitals in exchange for a 2020 second-round pick and a 2021 conditional third-round pick on February 18, 2020.
Upon leaving the Sharks, Dillon ranked ninth in most games in Sharks history and seventh with the most penalty minutes in franchise history.
Prior to the trade, Dillon spoke highly of San Jose and emphasized his wish to remain with the team.
On October 6, 2020, Dillon opted to forgo free agency and signed a four-year, $15.6 million contract with the Capitals.


Winnipeg Jets
On July 26, 2021, Dillon was traded by the Capitals to the Winnipeg Jets in exchange for second-round picks in 2022 and 2023.
Later, on December 17, 2021, in his first game against the Capitals since the trade, Dillon scored his first goal as a Winnipeg Jet against his former team.


New Jersey Devils
After three seasons with the Jets, on July 1, 2024, Dillon signed a three-year, $12 million contract with the New Jersey Devils.


Personal life
Dillon has partnered up with HEROS, a non-profit youth hockey organization based out of Western Canada, where he is an ambassador.
He helped open an additional HEROS office in his hometown of Surrey, British Columbia.


Career statistics


Regular season and playoffs


International


References


External links
Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database

2025–26 Middlesbrough F.C. season
The 2025–26 season is the 150th season in the history of Middlesbrough Football Club and their ninth consecutive season in the Championship.
In addition to the domestic league, the club are also participating in the FA Cup and the EFL Cup.


Managerial changes
Prior to the season starting, Rob Edwards was appointed as the new head coach on a three-year contract.
On 12 November, after 15 games in charge and a win ratio of 46.67%, he resigned as head coach to join Wolverhampton Wanderers.


Transfers and contracts


In

Expenditure:  ≈ £28,974,000 (all fees converted into GBP)


Out

Income:  £28,350,000


Loans in


Loans out


Released / out of contract


New contracts


Pre-season and friendlies
On 27 May, Middlesbrough announced their first pre-season friendly, against Rangers.
A week later, a second fixture was confirmed, against Hartlepool United.
A third trip was later added against Bradford City.
A home friendly was later announced, against Deportivo La Coruña.
On 4 July, a trip to Mansfield Town was added.
  Win
  Draw
  Loss
  Fixtures


Competitions


Overall record


Championship


League table


Results summary


Results by round


Matches
On 26 June the Championship fixtures were announced, with Middlesbrough hosting Swansea City on the opening weekend.
  Win
  Draw
  Loss
  Fixtures


EFL Cup

Middlesbrough were drawn at home to Doncaster Rovers in the first round.
  Win
  Draw
  Loss
  Fixtures


Statistics


Appearances and goals
As of match played 8 November 2025
Players with no appearances are not included on the list


Disciplinary record
As of match played 8 November 2025


References

2022 Open International de Tennis de Roanne – Doubles
Lloyd Glasspool and Harri Heliövaara were the defending champions but chose not to defend their title.
Sadio Doumbia and Fabien Reboul won the title after defeating Dustin Brown and Szymon Walków 7–6(7–5), 6–4 in the final.


Seeds


Draw
Key


References


External links
Main draw

Nigel Brennan
Nigel Brennan (born 18 May 1972) is an Australian photojournalist and author.
In 2008, Islamist insurgents in southern Somalia kidnapped him and Canadian freelance journalist Amanda Lindhout.
He was released 15 months later after a ransom payment was given to his captors.
He then went on to write a memoir recounting his hostage experience.
In 2013, Brennan competed in the Clipper Round the World Yacht Race, and spoke after the end of the Atlantic leg about his abduction and its psychological aftermath.

In 2022, he was cast on the first season of the Australian reality show The Traitors, finishing 7th of 24 contestants.


Abduction
On 23 August 2008, three days after having arrived in Mogadishu, Nigel Brennan and Amanda Lindhout went to interviews at an IDP camp.
On the way they were stopped by gunmen and kidnapped along with their Somali translator, Abdifatah Mohammed Elmi, their driver, Mahad Isse, and a driver from the Shamo Hotel, Marwali.
The abductors were teenage insurgents affiliated with the Hizbul Islam fundamentalist group.
The kidnappers initially demanded a ransom of three million US dollars.
Brennan and Lindhout were held in isolation, mostly in a room 3 x 5 meters, and often in the dark.
Both Brennan and Lindhout converted to Islam to ingratiate themselves with their captors.
An escape attempt through a toilet window ended with their dramatic recapture in a mosque.
Elmi and the two drivers were released on 15 January 2009.
The Australian Government having a no-ransom policy led them to having very little involvement in Brennan's case.
The kidnappers later lowered the ransom demand to $1 million.
After being held hostage for 462 days, the ransom was paid.
 Australian Greens parliamentary leader Senator Bob Brown and businessman Dick Smith lent money to secure their release.
They were both released on 25 November 2009.


Memoir
In 2011, Brennan released the memoir The Price of Life: A True Story of Kidnap & Ransom, which detailed his psychological journey, from the first weeks to the end - as well as the family's perspective.
He co-authored it with his sister Nicky Bonney, and sister-in-law Kellie Brennan.


Dramatization
British documentary/docudrama television series Banged Up Abroad featured the personal account of photojournalist Nigel Brennan in Series 7 (2012) Episode 18: Somalia/Nightmare in Somalia.
Actor Tom Oakley played the role of Brennan.


The Traitors
Brennan was a contestant on the Australian version of the gameshow Traitors in the first season.


See also
Foreign hostages in Somalia
List of kidnappings
List of solved missing person cases


References

Josep Clarà
Josep Clarà i Ayats (16 December 1878 – 4 November 1958) was a Spanish sculptor.
His work was part of the sculpture event in the art competition at the 1924 Summer Olympics.


Biography
Clarà was born in Olot, Girona, Catalonia (Spain) in 1878.
He attended the Olot School of Drawing (Escola de Dibuix d'Olot) with professor Josep Berga i Boix (1837–1914).
During Clarà's time at the school, Joaquim Vayreda (1843–1894) highly praised one of Clarà's drawings; this greatly encouraged Clarà's artistic endeavors and was one of his happiest childhood memories.
In 1897, Clarà enrolled in the School of Fine Arts in Toulouse, France.
He moved to Paris in 1890, where he met Auguste Rodin, which caused him to pursue sculpture.
He also became close friends with sculptor Arístides Maillol.
 He was a student of Louis-Ernest Barrias.
His sketches of dancer Isadora Duncan's distinct movements stand out among Clarà's work.
After Duncan's death in 1927, Antonia Mercé instead served as Clarà's model.
Clarà's training was capped off with travels to London and Italy.
He returned to Paris, where he distinguished himself as a sculptor.
A part of "mediterraneísmo", his work was figurative, solid, and compact.
He put on numerous exhibitions of his work in Paris, London, Berlin, and Barcelona.
In 1932, he moved permanently to Barcelona.
There, he continued working and exhibiting until his death on 4 November 1958.
His last sculpture was "Estàtica" (1954–1958).
Most of his works are now held by the Museu de la Garrotxa in Olot and by the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya in Barcelona.
Other works are held by the Pompidou Centre (Paris), Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes (Santiago de Chile, Chile), Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes (Buenos Aires, Argentina), Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes (Havana, Cuba), Musée des Augustins (Toulouse, France), and the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía (Madrid).
His sculpture, Serenity is located in Meridian Hill Park in Washington, D.C.


See also
Sculptures in Plaça de Catalunya


References

Walter Mzembi
Walter Mzembi (born 16 March 1964) is a Zimbabwean politician.
He previously served as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Tourism and Hospitality Industry.
He was the Member of the House of Assembly for Masvingo South (ZANU-PF).
 It was announced on November 27, 2017, that Simbarashe Mumbengegwi was now the acting Foreign Minister of Zimbabwe.
In October 2020, it was revealed Mzembi was among those who fled to South Africa before their criminal trials could be completed.


Early life
Mzembi was born to a Ndebele mother and a Karanga Shona father.


Career
When the ZANU-PF–Movement for Democratic Change national unity government was sworn in on February 13, 2009, Mzembi became Minister of Tourism.
Since 2007, he is placed on the European Union sanctions list.
He helped organize the UNWTO co-hosted by Zimbabwe and Zambia in August 2013.
In 2017 Mzembi was the candidate of the African Union for the position of the 2018-21 Secretary-General of the World Tourism Organization.
On 19 November 2017, Mzembi was expelled from ZANU–PF by the party's central committee.
Other prominent G40 politicians, including Grace Mugabe, Saviour Kasukuwere, Patrick Zhuwao, Ignatius Chombo, Jonathan Moyo, Shadreck Mashayamombe, Makhosini Hlongwane, Innocent Hamandishe, Samuel Undenge and Sarah Mahoka were also expelled from the party.
His predecessor, Simbarashe Mumbengegwi, would also become acting Minister of Foreign Affairs on 27 November 2017 as well.
He resurfaced at a scheduled parliamentary seating on the 28 November 2017 where he seemed jovial and loyal to the new leadership.
He first went to greet First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa followed by handshakes with several other MPs.


Corruption case, departure from Zimbabwe and extradition request
Mzembi was arrested on 5 January 2018 and appeared in court on the next day where he was granted bail.
The case has however dragged with his lawyers citing his ill health.
He was however seen in a video circulating on social media appearing fit.
He was arrested over allegedly misuse of resources meant for a tourism conference in 2013.
On October 12, 2020, it was revealed Mzembi fled to South Africa before his criminal trial could be completed and that Zimbabwe's national prosecutors met with South Africa Prosecutor-General Kumbirai Hodzi to seek extradition of both Mzembi and Saviour Kasukuwere on corruption charges.
However, Hodzi hesitated and demanded that the proposed extraditions be based on the Extradition (Designated Countries) Order of 1990.
Zimbabwe's prosecutor general stated that both Mzembi and Kasukuwere “had their cases before the courts, but they fled before their trials were completed.”


References


See also
ZANU-PF
Robert Mugabe
Emmerson Mnangagwa
United Nations World Tourism Organization


Further reading
"Wars, Trade & Tourism: African Style Soft Diplomacy by Dr.
Walter Mzembi".
eTurboNews.
27 May 2024.
Retrieved 19 August 2025.
– Article on Mzembi’s 2024 Berlin Forum speech on diplomacy.
"Poisoned and Chained to a Zimbabwe Hospital Bed: Dr.
Walter Mzembi is Fighting for his Life".
eTurboNews.
3 August 2025.
Retrieved 19 August 2025.
– Investigative piece on Mzembi’s health crisis and detention.
"Walter Mzembi Reportedly Falls Seriously Sick Behind Bars Ahead of US$2M Trial".
The Zambian Observer.
2 August 2025.
Retrieved 19 August 2025.
– Report on Mzembi’s health and legal charges.
"Zimbabwe's Tourism Minister Walter Mzembi".
BBC World Service.
20 March 2017.
Retrieved 19 August 2025.
– Interview on Mzembi’s tourism efforts and Mugabe’s leadership.


External links
African Union Profile of Dr.
Walter Mzembi – Official profile detailing Mzembi’s roles in tourism and diplomacy.
World Tourism Network: Dr.
Walter Mzembi’s Tourism Hero Status – Article on Mzembi’s recognition as a Tourism Hero.
Institute for Cultural Diplomacy: Walter Mzembi’s Keynote Address – Coverage of Mzembi’s 2024 Berlin Forum speech on diplomacy.
Nehanda Radio: Mzembi’s Health Crisis in Custody – Report on Mzembi’s health and detention in 2025.

Fire on the Mountain (Maclean book)
Fire on the Mountain (ISBN 0061829617) is a 1999 non-fiction book by John N.
Maclean that describes the most famous wildland fire of the late 20th century.
The book describes the events and aftermath of the South Canyon Fire on Storm King Mountain on July 6, 1994, in Colorado, which took the lives of 14 firefighters.
Those who died included nine members of the Prineville (Oregon) Hotshots: Kathi Beck, Tami Bickett, Scott Blecha, Levi Brinkley, Doug Dunbar, Terri Hagen, Bonnie Holtby, Rob Johnson, and Jon Kelso, along with a Missoula Smokejumper, Don Mackey, two McCall (Idaho) Smokejumpers, Roger Roth and James Thrash, and two members of a Helitack crew, Richard Tyler and Rob Browning.

Fire on the Mountain, won the Mountain and Plains Booksellers award as the best non-fiction book of 1999.
It was made into an eponymous two-hour documentary by the History Channel that was a finalist for an Emmy award and won the Cine Master's Award as the best documentary of 1999.


Related
John N.
Maclean's father Norman Maclean wrote the 1992 book Young Men and Fire that told a very similar story about the Mann Gulch Fire of August 1949 and the 13 men who died there.
The fire occurred in Mann Gulch in the Gates of the Mountains Wilderness.

GAZ-61
The GAZ-61 is a four-wheel-drive car from USSR manufacturer GAZ first introduced in 1938 by designer V.
A.
Gratchev, to replace his too-complex model GAZ-M21.


History
It was essentially a GAZ-M1 with a higher stance and all-wheel drive (one of the world's first all-wheel drive passenger cars).
It could climb angles up to 38 degrees and cross water up to 72 cm (28 in) deep.
The first version, produced from 1940 until 1941, was a five-seat four-door phaeton.
It was powered by a 3,485 cc (212.7 cu in) six-cylinder four-stroke engine with 85 hp (63 kW) and a top speed of 100 km/h (62 mph).
Many supreme commanders of the Red Army headquarters used this car in 1941.
In 1941, the updated GAZ-61-73 was introduced.
It became a five-seat, four-door six-light saloon with the same engine, but now rated at a top speed of 107 km/h (66 mph).
The GAZ-61 was produced not only in civilian black but also in blue and Russian 4BO green, together with the typical cross-country tread tires.


References


External links

GAZ-61-73, 4x4, Staff Car

Sebastião Tapajós
Sebastião Tapajós (April 16, 1943 – October 2, 2021) was a Brazilian guitarist and composer from Santarém (Pará).
He began learning guitar from his father when he was nine years old, and later studied at the Conservatório de Lisboa and at the Instituto de Cultura Hispânica de Madrid.
In 1998 he composed the soundtrack for the local Pará film "Lendas Amazônicas".
In the 2000s, Tapajós  performed in Europe.
He recorded more than 50 albums in his career.


Discography
1963 Apresentando Sebastião Tapajós e Seu Conjunto
1968 O Violão e...Tapajós
1972 Sebastiao Tapajos + Pedro dos Santos
1976 Guitarra Fantástica
1979 Violão & Amigos
1982 Guitarra Criolla
1982 Zimbo Convida Sebastião Tapajós
1984 Maurício Einhorn & Sebastião Tapajós
1986 Visões Do Nordeste
1986 Painel
1987 Villa-Lobos
1988 Lado a Lado - Sebastião Tapajós and Gilson Peranzzetta
1989 Terra Brasis
1989 Brasilidade - Sebastião Tapajós and João Cortez
1990 Reflections - Sebastião Tapajós and Gilson Peranzzetta
1993 Instrumental No Ccbb - Sebastião Tapajós, Gilson Peranzzetta, Maurício Einhorn and Paulinho Nogueira
1997 Amazônia Brasileira - Sebastião Tapajós and Nilson Chaves
1997 Ontem e Sempre
1997 Afinidades - Sebastião Tapajós and Gilson Peranzzetta
1998 Da Minha Terra - Sebastião Tapajós and Jane Duboc
2001 Acorde Violão


References


External links
Official Site
eJazz.com Bio of Sebastião Tapajós (n.1944)
Sebastião Tapajós at IMDb
Sebastião Tapajós discography at Discogs

Barbara Uthmann
Barbara Uthmann (born around 1514 in Annaberg in the Ore Mountains in Germany; died 14 January 1575, also in Annaberg) was considered to be one of the greatest supporters of bobbin lace making (probably incorrectly, as explained by Reinhart Unger in his work, Barbara Uthmann und ihre Zeit) and was a successful businesswoman in the Ore Mountains.
 Her last name has sometimes been spelled Uttmann, but the spelling Uthmann is generally considered to be correct today.


Life
She was the daughter of Heinrich von Elterlein and successfully continued the business of her deceased husband, Christoph Uthmann, but failed as a result of intrigue by her competition.
 She was thus forced to look for another field of activity.
 It cannot be historically proven that she actually had bobbin lace made as a cottage industry (commonly referred to as manufacturing at that time), but it can be proven that she was active as a manufacturer of braids.
At times, she employed 900 braid makers.
 After her death, she left behind a considerable life's work and is still counted today as one of the extraordinary personalities of the Ore Mountains.


Monuments to Barbara Uthmann
In 1885, a bronze figure of Uthmann was cast for the town of Annaberg by the Dresden sculptor, Professor Eduard Robert Henze.
It served as an acknowledgement to Barbara Uthmann, who was considered to be the instigator of the second industrial boom (after silver mining) in the history of the Ore Mountains.
In the second half of the 1930s, a child died while playing at the edge of the Barbara Uthmann fountain and the water was removed from the pool.
It was filled with earth and planted afterwards.
In the Second World War, the bronze figure was melted down for armaments production (30 July 1942).
On 12 November 1998, after two polls, it was decided that the Barbara Uthmann monument should be erected again.
After collecting donations for ten years, a replica of the Henze monument was erected in the market square at Annaberg-Buchholz on 2 October 2002.
On this occasion, the Uthmann family celebrated a family reunion in Annaberg-Buchholz.
Over 60 descendants witnessed the official opening of the fountain and signed the golden book of the town.
There is also a Barbara-Uthmann monument in the market square of Elterlein.


Honours
In 2003, Planetoid 1998 CA, discovered on 1 February 1998, by the Drebach Observatory in the Ore Mountains, was named after Barbara Uthmann.
The planetoid, which is now officially called Uthmann (312231), orbits the sun between the planets of Mars and Jupiter.


References


Continue reading


External links
Barbara Uthmann und das Klöppeln (in German)
Joachim Mehnert | Barbara Uthmann: eine ungewöhnliche Frau (book overview) (in German)

Morphini
Morphini is a tribe of nymphalid butterflies in the subfamily Morphinae.


Classification
Listed alphabetically:
Subtribe Antirrheina:

Antirrhea Hübner, [1822]
Caerois Hübner, [1819]
Subtribe Morphina:

Morpho Fabricius, 1807


References

Fırtına River
Fırtına or Peruma is one of the main water streams of Rize Province in the eastern Black Sea Region of Turkey.
Its name is Turkish for "storm water".
There is a group of more than 20 well-preserved Ottoman-era bridges over the Fırtına Deresi.


Description
The Fırtına Deresi rises in Kaçkar Mountains in Rize Province and flows to the Black Sea, passing Çamlıhemşin and Ardeşen.
It is 68 kilometres (42 mi) long.


See also
Fırtına River bridges


References

Rhododendron Wood
Leith Hill Rhododendron wood is a garden in  Surrey, UK of historic and horticultural significance noted for its collection of rare rhododendrons and redwood trees


History
Rhododendron Wood was planted in the mid 19th century by an English gardener Caroline Wedgwood (nee Darwin).
When her husband Josiah Wedgwood III retired from the family pottery business, he bought Leith Hill Place - an elegant 17th century country house down South.
In 1847 the family - Josiah, Caroline and three young daughters - moved from Staffordshire to their new estate in the Surrey Hills.
Caroline transformed two fields and a hedgerow next to the house into a formal park.
She planted the area up with giant sequoias, azaleas and rhododendrons - exotic shade loving shrubs with glossy leaves and sweet scented flowers.
Many of the rhododendron specimens came from Asia, possibly via Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker - the director of Kew Gardens and a good friend of Caroline's younger brother Charles Darwin.
In 1987 the Wood was damaged by the Great Storm, but some of the original plantings survived.
These include:

Sequoiadendron giganteum - giant redwood native to the North America (California)
Sequoia sempervirens - coastal redwood trees also native to the North America are among the tallest and the longest living in the world
Location of both suggest they may have formed a feature along the main driveway to Leith Hill Place.

Smithii Group - tree-like rhododendrons with red flowers native to Himalayas, China and Thailand

Rhododendron falconeri - white flowering shrubs with large leaves characterised by rusty coloured woolly undersides, native to the mountains of North India.
Emma Darwin - sister of Caroline's husband married to her brother Charles - mentioned the flowers of this specimen in the 1846 letter to Hooker: "We have just received a blossom of Rhod Falconeri which has flowered in the open air at my brothers on Leith Hill Surrey".
Darwins were frequent visitors to Leith Hill.
Dozens of surviving letters between the members of the Darwin-Wedgwood clan mention Charles and his family spending time and enjoying "a walk in the wood" at the Surrey estate of Josiah and Caroline.
The rhododendrons from Caroline's garden are included in "50 Great Trees" by Simon Toomer, Curator of Living Collections at Kew Gardens, for they provide "a glimpse into the domestic life of Charles Darwin and his family at a time when the story of life on Earth was being unravelled".
In 1944 the composer Ralph Vaughan Williams bequeathed the Rhododendron Wood planted by his grandmother to the National Trust.
As of 2024, the wood is managed by the National Trust and is open to the public.
British artist Alison Carlier created an audioguide that features music of Ralph Vaughan Williams to accompany the walks around the garden.


Rhododendron Wood today
The wood is managed by the National Trust and is open to the public.
In addition to the originally planted specimens, the following trees growing within the confines of the wood are of particular significance:

Rhododendron 'Polar Bear' (R.
auriculatum × R.
decorum subsp.
diaprepes) - very late flowering rhododendron with heavily scented white trumpet-shaped flowers

Rhododendron 'Winsome'- remontant rhododendron blooming twice a year: red buds in winter and cerise blossom in June
Rhododendron rex - native to China and India characterised by huge white flowers and large leaves with fawn woolly undersides
Rhododendron glischroides (putative var.
arachnoideum)- rhododendron from Upper Myanmar extremely rare in cultivation; natural habitat is in the altitudes above 3,000 meters; has hairy leaf stem, produces pink flowers in April–May
Rhododendron macabeanum - has large pale yellow bloom and large leaves with white wooly indumentum
London plane (Platanus × hispanica) - hybrid of oriental plane and American sycamore introduced in the 18th century; now a popular urban tree, is often severely pruned, has characteristic flaking "camouflage" bark, can grow up to 30m, produces spiky pom pom fruits eaten by naturalised parakeets
Dawn redwood (Metasequoia glyptostroboides) - deciduous conifer with twisting trunk originally described from fossils, thought to be extinct until discovered in China in 1941
English oak (Pedunculate oak, Quercus robur) - important tree for British woodland ecosystem and historical agricultural practices; when alive oaks are hosts to numerous species of insects, fungi and lichen, when dead and rotting or hollow - to beetles and bats; mature 40–50 years old oak could produce up to 50,000 acorns, these nuts growing on long stalks or peduncles (hence the name) were once a major food source for wild boars and reared pigs
Paper/canoe birch (Betula papyrifera) - native to North America, as the name suggests has been used by the indigenous people to make canoes, has waterproof peeling bark
Tulip tree (Liriodendron tulipifera) - there are 2 specimens of the tulip tree in the area: the one within the confines of the wood is grown from the cutting of the parent tree in the field next to the Leith Hill Place.
The latter tree is believed to be one of the largest and oldest - over 250 years - in the country thus predating Wedgwoods and Caroline's planting programme.
Weeping yew (Taxus baccata 'Dovastoniana') - has poisonous leaves and seeds, very hard and durable wood
River birch (Betula nigra) - grows by the water in wet ground, has flaky bark, native to the east of the USA
Japanese cedar (Cryptomeria japonica) - can grow up to 30-55m, native to Japan and China, used there as an important source of timber
British artist Alison Carlier created an audioguide that features music of Ralph Vaughan Williams to accompany the walks around the garden.
Separate summer and winter versions are available.


Management and diseases
The effects of the Great Storm of October 1987 when many mature trees and shrubs were damaged are still felt within the wood.
Trees planted to re-establish the canopy and provide shade for the rhododendrons continue to need periodic thinning.
The thinning is carried out by the National Trust team.
To mitigate the threat to the living plant collection from the sudden oak death (Phytophthora ramorum) that, despite the name could infect and potentially kill other trees, Rhododendron ponticum - a carrier - is removed from the wood.
Other rhododendrons are being closely monitored for any signs of the disease.


References

Iron Marshal
Iron Marshal may refer to:

Shaughnessy: The Iron Marshal, 1996 CBS Western TV movie
Louis-Nicolas Davout, French military leader
Floriano Peixoto, Brazilian soldier and politician


See also
Iron Duke (disambiguation)

Doral (cigarette)
Doral is an American brand of cigarettes, currently owned and manufactured by the R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Company.


History
Doral was first introduced in 1969 and is now available nationwide in the United States.
Originally considered a premium brand, the cigarettes were re-branded in 1984 as a savings brand.
This made Doral the first officially branded cigarette in the value-savings market.
In 1984, The New York Times tested various "low tar" and "low nicotine" brands and the tests concluded that Doral King Size and Doral King Size menthol had 5 MG of tar, 0,4 MG of nicotine and 3 MG of carbon monoxide.
In 1999, it was reported that, due to R.J.
Reynolds' sponsoring of various sport sponsorships, the brand was the third largest tobacco brand after Marlboro and Newport.
In October 2014, it was reported that R.J.
Reynolds might add another brand that had to be sold off to Imperial Tobacco (along with the Kool, Salem, Winston and Maverick brands) to secure the approval of the Federal Trade Commission to purchase the Lorillard Tobacco Company.
This did not happen, however, and R.J.
Reynolds still sells the brand today.
Doral currently receives limited support from R.J.
Reynolds, as Pall Mall has taken over as the company's primary discount brand.


Advertisements

R.J.
Reynolds made various poster advertisements to promote the Doral brand.
Magazine advertisements were done in comic strip format, such as one with a lion tamer worried about what his Doral pack sang.
Doral's current slogan is "Premium Taste, Guaranteed".
An early slogan was "Taste me!" done with female voices on broadcast commercials.
This was lampooned by George Carlin in his 1972 stand-up bit "Sex in Commercials".
In 1972 and 1973, Doral was a sponsor of the NASTAR skiing competition, which they promoted with a "Doral-NASTAR Award".

R.J.
Reynolds also printed cigarette cards for Doral during the years 2000-2001.
As of 2019, Doral held a market share of less than 1%.


See also
Tobacco smoking


References

Eveline Lemke
Eveline Lemke (June 1964) is former German politician and member of the Alliance 90/The Greens.
From 18 May 2011 until 18 May 2016, she was vice minister president of Rhineland-Palatinate and Minister for Economics, Climate Protection, Energy and Regional Planning.
On 27 March 2011, she was elected into the Landtag of Rhineland-Palatinate.
She was the leading candidate for her party in the 2016 Rhineland-Palatinate state elections along with The Greens faction leader in the Landtag, Daniel Köbler, after having been leader of the party since 2006.
As vice minister  Lemke represented the state of Rhineland-Palatinate in the German Bundesrat.
As author and speaker in green technological issues and Circular Economy, she founded Thinking Circular in 2017.
This thinktank is listed in the Sustainable Development Goals Help Desk, a platform by the United Nations since July 2018.
She is also working as consultant together with Prof.
Michael Braungart, chemist and inventor of the design philosophy Cradle-to-Cradle, Martin Lees (Club of Rome) and David Wortmann (DWR-Eco-Innovation-Alliance).


Before politics
Lemke was born in Hamburg.
Her father, Dietrich Lemke, was leader of GEW, a teachers union in Hamburg, whose brother Willi Lemke was Senator in Bremen and Manager Werder Bremen, a famous soccer-club, and later serving as United Nations Secretary-General's Special Adviser on Sport for Development and Peace.
He was appointed to the position by United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on 18 March 2008.
Lemke graduated in high school 1981 in Burlington, Vermont, and got her German Abitur 1984 in Hamburg, where she added a diploma as Assistant in Foreign Languages in 1985 and a dual training as a steel merchant, which she finished at Carl Spaeter GmbH in 1987.
Then she worked for DEUMU Deutsche Erz- und Metall-Union in the steel and scrap business as assistant for the management.
She then signed in for studying economics and management at the University in Hanover and finished with Vordiplom in 1993.
After a family phase, raising children she entered business life again in 2000, working as consultant for ELZ and for the Green Party Hochtaunuskreis, was elected head of party in Hochtaunuskreis and entered local parliaments there before becoming head of the party in Rhineland-Palatinate in 2006 and entering Landtag of Rhineland-Palatinate and the government in 2011.
Lemke focused on the energy turnaround, renewable energies, land-planning strategies for renewable energies, the founding of an energy agency and innovation strategy for Rhineland-Palatinate.
In the center of her work in the Ministry for economy, climate protection, Energy and Landplannin (MWKEL) was a resource-effective industrial policy, the lack of qualified workers, dual training, sustainability and climate protection.
Under her leadership an index for well-being was installed.
In 2015 she was elected as head of campaign for running Landtagswahl 2016 together with Daniel Köbler.
The Green party entered parliament with 5.3 %.
Lemke did not become a member of the following governmental coalition between Social Democrats, Liberals and Greens.
She stayed one more year in parliament and left in March 2017, followed by Katharina Binz.


After politics
Lemke was elected as president of the private Karlshochschule International University in Karlsruhe in December 2016 for a period of 8 years.
Lemke was also elected to enter the advisory board of ABO-Wind in 2017.
In 2017 she finished thesis at the University of Hannover "Zur Bedeutung des Upgrading von Elektroalt- und Gebrauchtgeräten in Deutschland".
She in carrying BSc for economics and management.
She left Karlshochschule in July 2017 and founded her own consulting company and thinktank Thinking Circular, which became listed on the Sustainable Development Goals Help Desk (United Nations) in July 2018.


Personal life
Lemke is married and has four adult children and one grand child.
She lives in Bad Bodendorf.


Functions
Member of board of the Stiftung für Innovation
Chair of the board of trustees of Stiftung Rheinland-Pfalz für Innovation
Member of the board of trustees of the Forum für Zukunftsenergien
Member of Bundesrat from may 2011 to may 2016
Member of the board of trustees of AFS Interkulturelle Begegnungen
Deputy member of the commission „Lagerung hoch radioaktiver Abfallstoffe“
Member of the supervisory board of ABO Wind AG (since june 2017)


Publications
2011, Koalitionsvertrag, Den sozial-ökologischen Wandel gestalten, SPD, Bündnis 90/Die Grünen, Rheinland-Pfalz, Mainz, 101 Seiten
2011, Wachstum erreicht immer das Niveau unserer Lebensphilosophie, TOP-Magazin-Mainz, Ausgabe 3, 5.
Jahrgang, Mainz, S.
8–10
2011, Mit neuen Kompetenzen auf Herausforderungen reagieren in Rheinland-Pfalz, Das Wirtschaftsmagazin, Büro für Publizistik GmbH, Neckarzimmern, S.
4–5
2012, Rheinland-Pfalz auf dem Weg zur regenerativen Stromversorgung bis 2030 in 'Ein Jahr Energiewende – Erfahrungsberichte', Forum für Zukunftsenergien, Berlin, Schriftenreihe Band 5, Seite 104–110
2012, Die Energiewende ist auch ein Lebensgefühl in 'Bundesländer mit neuer Energie', Agentur für Erneuerbare Energien, Berlin, Jahresreport 2011/2012, S.
134–127
2013, Tradition trifft Innovation - Rheinland-Pfalz packt die Zukunft an in 'Wirtschaftsstandort Rheinland-Pfalz', Europäischer Wirtschaftsverlag, Darmstadt, S.
13–17
2012, Perspektiven für Rheinland-Pfalz, Nachhaltigkeitsstrategie des Landes, Fortschreibung 2011, Ministerium für Wirtschaft, Klimaschutz, Energie und Landesplanung, Mainz, S.
5
2013, Das Morgen Denken, das Morgen gestalten, Regierungserklärung zu Nachhaltiger Wirtschaftspolitik in Rheinland-Pfalz im Landtag, Mainz, Plenum-Protokoll 3354
2013, Nachhaltiges Wirtschaften durch Kreislaufwirtschaft in 'Bio- und Sekundärrohstoffverwertung VIII', Witzenhausen-Institut Neues aus Forschung und Praxis, Wieder, Kern, Russen, Witzenhausen, S.
100–106
2013, Healthcare Management in Rheinland-Pfalz in Healthcare-Guide, Ghorfa, Arab-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Berlin, S.
86–89
2014, Die Energiewende als Triebkraft für die europäische Integration in 'Wie kann die Energiewende im Europäischen Kontext gelingen', Forum für Zukunftsenergien, Schriftenreihe Band 7, Berlin, S.
134–140
2014, Wirtschaftsförderung für Green Economy in 'Wirtschaft mit Weitblick', ZIRP Zukunftsinitiative Rheinland-Pfalz e.
V., Mainz, S.
11
2014, Innovationsstrategie des Landes Rheinland-Pfalz in Beschluss des Ministerrates der Landesregierung von Rheinland-Pfalz, Vorlage MWKEL, Mainz
2015, Netzumbau ist keine Hürde für Energiewende in 'Bundesländer mit neuer Energie', Agentur für Erneuerbare Energien, Jahresreport 2014/2015, Berlin, S.
122–125
2015, Integrierte Energieversorgung auf Basis Erneuerbarer Energien in 'Wie soll das System der Energieversorgung der Zukunft aussehen', Forum für Zukunftsenergien, Schriftenreihe Band 8,  Berlin, S.
126–133
2015, Der lange Weg zu einem Wertstoffgesetz, in 'Wasser und Abfall 04-2015', Springer Viewer Fachmedien Wiesbaden GmbH, Wiesbaden, S.
4
2015, Unternehmen Klimaschutz, Regierungserklärung zur Vereinbarkeit von Klimaschutz und wirtschaftlichem Handeln in Rheinland-Pfalz, im Plenum des Landtages, Mainz, Protokoll 16/108, Ziffer 7135
2015, Perspektiven für Rheinland-Pfalz , Nachhaltigkeitsstrategie des Landes, Fortschreibung 2015, Ministerium für Wirtschaft, Klimaschutz, Energie und Landesplanung, Mainz, S.
5.
2015, Der ländliche Raum, ein wirtschaftlicher Zukunftsstandort in 'Starke Wirtschaft, starke Regionen', ZIRP Zukunftsinitiative Rheinland-Pfalz e.V., Mainz, S.
17–20
2015, Briefe zur Transformation: Flächenverbrauch stoppen: Das Beispiel Rheinland-Pfalz, in Novum Heft 6 „Boden“, Gut Wetter Verlag UG, Forum Ökologisch Soziale Marktwirtschaft e.
V., Berlin, S.
6
2016, Politik hart am Wind.
GRÜNE Perspektiven für ein gutes Leben, Eveline Lemke, Oekom Verlag, München, ISBN 978-3-86581-846-1
2019, Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st Century (ed.): Renewables in Cities – 2019 Global Status Report, 134 pages, Paris 2019, ISBN 978-3-9818911-9-5 (Sidebar-Author)


References


External links
Homepage of Eveline Lemke
AW-Wiki: Eveline Lemke

2025 FIFA Futsal Women's World Cup qualification (UEFA)
The European qualifying competition for the 2025 FIFA Futsal Women's World Cup was the women's futsal competition that determined the four UEFA teams in the 2025 FIFA Futsal Women's World Cup in the Philippines.


Format
The qualifying competition consists of two stages:

Main round: The 23 teams (excluding top seeds Portugal and Spain) are divided into five groups of four and one group of three.
The group winners advance to the elite round, where they will be joined by the two highest-ranked teams, who received byes.
Elite round: The eight teams, including Portugal and Spain, are drawn into two groups of four.
The top two in each group qualify for the World Cup.


Teams
A total of 25 (out of 55) UEFA member national teams entered the qualifying competition, with England, France and Norway making their competitive debuts.
The teams were seeded based on their Women's Futsal National Team Coefficient ranking.
The two highest-ranked teams advanced directly to the elite round, while the remaining teams entered the main round.

Notes
Teams marked in bold are the mini-tournament hosts.


Schedule
The qualifying matches are scheduled on dates within the FIFA Futsal International Match Calendar.


Main round
The winners of each group will advance to the elite round, where they will join Spain and Portugal, who receive byes.
Times are CEST (UTC+2), as listed by UEFA (local times, if different, are in parentheses).


Group 1


Group 2


Group 3


Group 4


Group 5


Group 6


Elite round


Qualified teams
The top two in each group qualify for the finals.

Teams that received a bye to this round
 Spain
 Portugal
Teams qualified from the main round


Draw
The draw for the Elite round took place on 31 October, 2024.
Pot 1 consisted of the two host countries (which were drawn into position 2 of the two groups), Pot 3 consisted of the two teams which received a bye to this round.
They were drawn into position 1 of either group.


Result
Times are CET (UTC+1), as listed by UEFA (local times, if different, are in parentheses).


Group A


Group B


Qualified teams for FIFA Futsal Women's World Cup
The following four teams from UEFA qualified for the 2025 FIFA Futsal Women's World Cup.


References


External links

Oleg Zelenin
Oleg Yuryevich Zelenin (Russian: Олег Юрьевич Зеленин; born 4 March 1989) is a Russian former professional football player.


Club career
He played in the Russian Football National League for FC Zvezda Irkutsk in 2008.


External links
Oleg Zelenin at FootballFacts.ru  (in Russian)
Career summary by sportbox.ru
Oleg Zelenin at Soccerway

Muslim conquests
The Muslim conquests, Muslim invasions, Islamic conquests, including Arab conquests, Arab Islamic conquests, also Iranian Muslim conquests, Turkic Muslim conquests etc.

Early Muslim conquests
Ridda Wars
Muslim conquest of Persia
Muslim conquest of Khorasan
Muslim conquest of Pars
Muslim conquest of Khuzestan
Muslim conquest of Northern Persia
Muslim conquest of Kerman
Muslim conquest of the Levant
Muslim conquest of Jerusalem
Muslim conquest of Egypt
Muslim conquest of Transoxiana
Muslim conquest of Armenia
Muslim conquests of Afghanistan
Muslim conquest of Sistan
Muslim conquest of Azerbaijan
Muslim conquest of the Maghreb
Muslim conquest of Spain
Muslim conquests in Italy
Muslim conquest of Sicily
Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent
Umayyad conquest of Sindh
Ghaznavid Campaign in India
Ghurid campaign in India
Ghurid conquest of Bengal
Dehli Sultanate conquests
Bahmani Sultanate conquests
Deccan Sultanate conquests
Mughal conquests
Bengal Sultanate conquests
Bengal Sultanate conquest of Orissa
Bengal Sultanate conquest of Assam
Bengal conquest of Arakan
Muslim conquest of Assam
Kara-Khanid conquest of Xinjiang
Seljuk conquest of Turkey
Ottoman conquests in Europe


See also
Spread of Islam
Arab–Byzantine wars
List of Ottoman conquests, sieges and landings

Robert Preston, 1st Baron Gormanston
Robert Preston, 1st Baron Gormanston (died 1396) was an Anglo-Irish nobleman, statesman and judge of the fourteenth century.
He held several senior judicial offices including, for a brief period, that of Lord Chancellor of Ireland.
He was the founder of the leading Anglo-Irish Preston family whose titles included Viscount Gormanston and Viscount Tara.


Background and early career
He was the son of Roger de Preston (died 1346) and his wife and niece Maud (or Matilda) de Preston.
His father was the son of Adam de Preston, a wealthy merchant from Preston, Lancashire; the family came to Ireland in the early fourteenth century.
Roger held several judicial offices including puisne justice of the Court of Common Pleas (Ireland).
Robert is first heard of in 1346 when he inherited property in Preston.
He followed his father into the legal profession, becoming Irish King's Serjeant about 1348 and Attorney General for Ireland in 1355, with a salary of 100 shillings a year.


Law Officer
As the Crown's principal Law Officer his duties were onerous: in 1357 and 1358 he was ordered to accompany the Lord Justice of Ireland through Leinster and Munster, and to plead and defend pleas on behalf of the Crown.
This assize lasted for almost 6 months, which must have seriously interfered with his private practice, although he did receive a salary of £29, which was then a very large sum, as well as his expenses.
He became Chief Justice of the Irish Common Pleas in 1358, and held that office for 20 years.
He was removed from office in 1378, "unless the King or Privy Council of Ireland order otherwise " but this was on his own petition.
In 1359-61 the English Crown was faced with a serious rebellion in Leinster led by the O'Byrne family and the MacMurrough-Kavanaghs.
King Edward III appointed his second son Lionel of Antwerp as Lord Lieutenant of Ireland to put down the rebellion, in which task he was largely successful.
Preston served as his lieutenant in the campaign and received a knighthood.
He was created Baron Gormanston between 1365 and 1370.
He had already been summoned to the Irish Parliament as Baron Kells, in right of his first wife, Margaret de Bermingham.
In 1367 he sat on a commission to inquire into what profits were due to the English Crown from the Exchequer of Ireland, and later the same year he sat on another commission to inquire into whether the manor of Rathkeale was held from the Crown.
Despite his close family ties (through his first wife) with the Bermingham family of Carbury, he suffered considerable losses during the Berminghams' private war in Counties Meath and Kildare in 1367-8 and was forced to garrison Carbury Castle.
It is unclear if he played any part in the failed parley at Carbury in 1368 where the de Berminghams, in breach of the truce which had been agreed, imprisoned the Crown's representatives.


Later career
Although he had evidently been anxious to retire as Chief  Justice, in his later years he continued to hold high office: he was briefly Lord Chancellor in 1388, deputy Justiciar of Ireland in 1389, and he was appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer of Ireland in 1391.
He is believed to have owned a collection of legal and political works, including the controversial treatise Modus Tenendi Parliamentum (written c.1320), which stressed the crucial part played in Government by Parliament, and according to its critics, justified the deposition of the King.
The collection passed to his son Christopher, the second Baron, who made a keen study of it.
This became a cause of controversy in the political crisis of 1418-9, when  the second Baron was accused of treason, largely because of his possession of the Modus .
His main residence, acquired through marriage, was Carbury, County Kildare; he purchased Gormanston, County Meath from the St Amand family in 1363.
His mother Maud owned property in her own right and purchased a site where she built a Dublin townhouse, located approximately on what is now Parliament Street in the city centre, in about 1360.
It became known as Preston's Inn and was still called that in Elizabethan times.


Family
He married firstly Margaret de Bermingham, daughter and eventual heiress of Sir Walter de Bermingham, titular baron of Kells-in-Ossory, through which marriage he obtained Carbury Castle (which is now a ruin); he married secondly Joanna Hugely.
On his death in 1396 he was succeeded by his son Christopher Preston, 2nd Baron Gormanston, who also adopted the title Baron Kells in right of his mother.


References

Delmas Gooch
Robert Delmas "Del" Gooch (March 10, 1905 – December 1968) was a college football player.


Sewanee
Gooch was a prominent end for the Sewanee Tigers football teams of Sewanee:The University of the South.
At Sewanee he was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
He was picked for an all-time Sewanee team, which noted how Gooch would "slash through enemy interference to tackle his man viciously."  In his senior year, Gooch was awarded the Porter Cup of the Porter Clothing Company as his university's best all-around athlete.
He also appears on Billy Evans's "Southern Honor Roll."


References


External links
Delmas Gooch at Find a Grave

Viktor Sidyak
Viktor Aleksandrovich Sidyak (Russian: Ви́ктор Алекса́ндрович Сидя́к; born 24 November 1943) is a Russian former left-handed sabre fencer, a pupil of Mark Rakita and David Tyshler.
He was known for his aggressive style and the "one-and-a-half tempo attack".


Biography
Sidyak was born in Anzhero-Sudzhensk in Kemerovo Oblast, but spent most of his childhood in Donetsk.
He started fencing at age fifteen.
In the 1960s, while training in Lviv, he represented Ukraine on the internal Soviet circuit.
He was part of the winning team at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City.
In 1970, he moved to Minsk and joined the Belarusian fencing lobby which had produced Elena Belova, Alexandr Romankov, and Nikolai Alyokhin.
At the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, Sidyak became the first Soviet sabreur to win individual gold.
At the same Olympics, he fenced in the team final with his right eye bandaged over after having a fragment of the Italian Michele Maffei's blade removed from his eye the previous day.
Besides Sidyak, the team consisted of Vladimir Nazlymov, Eduard Vinokurov, and Viktor Bazhenov.
The Soviet and Italian teams met again in the finals, Italy taking gold, and USSR silver.
In 1994, Maffei's 1972 teammate Mario Aldo Montano invited Sidyak to coach the young fencers, including his own son, at his club in Livorno.
At the world championships Sidyak's won an individual title in 1969 and team titles in 1969–1971, 1974, 1975 and 1979.
As of 2016, Sidyak was the chairman of the professional boxing association of Belarus.


See also
Fencing
Glossary of fencing
List of fencers
List of Olympic medalists in fencing (men)


References


External links
Biography from the Russian Fencing Federation (in Russian)
Viktor Sidyak at Olympedia 
Viktor Sidyak at Olympics.com
Viktor Sidyak at the National Olympic Committee of the Republic of Belarus

Wiebbe Hayes
Wiebbe Hayes (born c. 1587) was a Dutch soldier known for his leading role in the suppression of Jeronimus Cornelisz's massacre of shipwreck survivors in 1629, after the merchant ship Batavia was wrecked in the Houtman Abrolhos, a chain of coral islands off the west coast of Australia.
Almost all that is known of the shipwreck and aftermath stems from a book by the expedition's commander, Francisco Pelsaert, who quickly absented himself after the shipwreck and reached safety before returning with the Sardam to rescue the survivors.


Early life
Little more is known about Wiebbe Hayes's background and early life than that he is known to have come from the small town of Winschoten in the province of Groningen.
Because Hayes could read and write, it is believed he had at least some basic formal education, and thus it is inferred that he was probably from a respectable, but impoverished family.


Batavia


Shipwreck
In October 1628, Hayes boarded the Batavia with about 70 other privates.
Employed by the Dutch East India Company (Dutch: Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie, commonly abbreviated to VOC), the soldiers were off to the Dutch East Indies for five years of garrison duty at Batavia.
Most of the soldiers were young men in their late teens or early twenties.
On the night of 3 June 1629, the Batavia was running under full sail when the look-out thought he saw breaking whitewater over shallows.
He warned the skipper, Ariaen Jacobsz, who decided not to change course, believing that it was a reflection of the moon.
Shortly afterwards, the Batavia ran aground at full speed on a coral reef near the Wallabi Group of islands.
Attempts to refloat her failed, and she subsequently broke up.
It was at this point that Hayes was noticed by the VOC chief merchant, Francisco Pelsaert.
As sailors and soldiers helped in the process of ferrying people to the nearby islands, Hayes was there helping passengers down, passing supplies, offering soothing words, directing commands and doing whatever was needed to be done to accomplish the hazardous tasks as safely as possible.


Massacre
Francisco Pelsaert and skipper Ariaen Jacobsz realised that there was only one chance of rescue for the survivors.
Thus four days after the shipwreck, they—along with about 40 others—sailed in an open boat for Java in order to get help.
With Pelsaert and Jacobsz gone, the VOC under-merchant Jeronimus Cornelisz, who was neither a sailor nor a soldier,  was the most senior official.
Cornelisz had been plotting a mutiny prior to the shipwreck, and had planned along with his co-conspirators to use the Batavia for piracy.
Following the shipwreck, Cornelisz and his supporters now plotted instead to seize control of the rescue ship when it arrived.
Before this could be done, however, he needed to neutralize those in the ship's company who potentially stood in his way.
At some point early in the shipwreck, a hardy and loyal group of soldiers had spontaneously gathered around Wiebbe Hayes.
Hayes was an ordinary soldier, but during the events and hardships they had just experienced, he must have shown uncommon qualities of natural leadership and courage, which had earned him the respect and trust of his comrades.
Records show that Hayes had stepped out of obscurity to become a rallying point for many survivors.
After Pelsaert departed for help, Hayes and the other soldiers constructed shelters and set up a small piece of sail in such a fashion that it both provided shelter from the wind and collected whatever rain might fall, funnelling it down into a waiting barrel.
Hayes also organised a systematic search for water on the island.
Hayes' leadership qualities did not go unnoticed by Cornelisz and his followers.
Arguing that the survivors lacked space and resources at Beacon Island, Cornelisz hand-picked Hayes, along with about 20 other men including a number of soldiers, to explore for fresh water on two large nearby islands, now known as West and East Wallabi Islands.
Cornelisz persuaded Hayes and his associates to leave behind their weapons before conducting their search.
He assumed the men would not find water, and that they would either die of thirst or return unarmed and unsuspecting to Beacon Island, whereupon they could be easily disposed of.

With his potential opponents out of the way, Cornelisz and his followers subsequently began a reign of terror on the island, raping, murdering and terrorizing the helpless passengers and crew who were not part of their conspiracy.
Nearly three weeks after Hayes' departure to the "high islands," a smoke signal was received from one of them; Wiebbe Hayes and his soldiers had found fresh water.
This complicated matters greatly for Cornelisz, who had believed the stranded group were either dead or dying.
First, it meant they had a means to survive.
Secondly, he was in danger of their warning any rescue ship approaching.
Initially, Cornelisz ignored the smoke, and Hayes wondered why no one came to their island.
Then, in the days that followed, a small group of survivors from Cornelisz's reign of terror began to drift across the lagoon to Hayes' location on makeshift rafts with stories of atrocities including rape, murder and massacre.
Despite being outranked by two cadets and other VOC officials, Hayes took command of the group and acted quickly to organise a defence of the island.
He improvised weapons such as cudgels, pikes, and planks from the Batavia wreckage with 41-centimetre-long (16 in) carpenter's nails driven through them.
On the top of a slope, which the attackers would have to climb after landing, he used dry stones to build a small fort, erected near the freshwater well.
Within the enclosure, his men piled up a large heap of heavy rocks and sharp stones to hurl at the attackers should they attempt to storm the fort.
During August and September, Cornelisz's gang made three attempts to take the island, but were repelled each time.
On the third attempt, Cornelisz himself was taken prisoner and his best three lieutenants were killed.
As a result, the rest of the mutineers fled in panic.
On 17 September, the mutineers made a fourth and final attempt to take the island armed with two muskets and were winning the battle by firing from a distance.
In the very midst of hostilities, however, a sail unexpectedly appeared on the horizon—that of the small VOC ship Sardam under the command of Pelsaert, who had returned.
Hayes once again acted more quickly than the mutineers, and organized a party to row to the rescue ship, warning them of the mutineers' intentions.
When the mutineers reached Pelsaert's vessel, they found their scheme had been discovered, and surrendered without a fight, some of them breaking down and spontaneously confessing to horrendous crimes.


Aftermath
Pelsaert promoted Hayes on the spot to the rank of sergeant at a salary of 18 guilders per month—twice his former wage—and placed him in charge of all surviving soldiers.
Upon arriving at Batavia, Wiebbe Hayes became a national hero, was decorated by the VOC and was promoted to the rank of standard-bearer, with another significant increase in pay.
The record of the promotion is also the last time Hayes is mentioned in the Dutch archives, and therefore nothing is known of his subsequent fate.
He is remembered by his actions that bear witness to his strength of character, military ability, natural leadership, good judgement and courage.
The remnants of defensive walls and stone shelters built by Wiebbe Hayes and his men on West Wallabi Island are Australia's oldest known European structures.
The Wiebbe Hayes Stone Fort and the well can still be seen to this day.
In the 1970s, the wreck of the Batavia was located and many artifacts were salvaged.
Some of them are now on exhibition at the Batavia Gallery in Fremantle, Western Australia.


References

Bishop of Argyll
The Bishop of Argyll or Bishop of Lismore was the ecclesiastical head of the Diocese of Argyll, one of Scotland's 13 medieval bishoprics.
It was created in 1200, when the western half of the territory of the Bishopric of Dunkeld was formed into the new diocese.
The bishops were based at Lismore.
The Bishopric of Argyll, like other Scottish bishoprics, passed into the keeping of the Scottish Episcopal Church after the Scottish Reformation.


List of Bishops of Argyll

In 1689, episcopacy was permanently abolished in the Scottish Church.
The line of bishops continued within the Scottish Episcopal Church, where the title was often combined with others.
In 1847, Alexander Ewing became the first to bear the title Bishop of Argyll and the Isles, and, in 1878, Angus MacDonald became the first Roman Catholic bishop to bear that same title.


References


Further reading
Dowden, John, The Bishops of Scotland, ed.
J.
Maitland Thomson, (Glasgow, 1912)
Keith, Robert, An Historical Catalogue of the Scottish Bishops: down to the year 1688, (London, 1924)
Watt, D.
E.
R., Fasti Ecclesiae Scoticanae Medii Aevi ad annum 1638, 2nd draft, (St Andrews, 1969)
MacDonald, Iain, Clerics and Clansmen The Diocese of Argyll between the Twelfth and Sixteenth Centuries, Brill, (Leiden, 2013), ISBN 9789004185470
Hay, Robert, Monks and Bishops: Lismore 560 - 1560, Birlinn Ltd., (Edinburgh, 2025), ISBN 9781839830860

Triplasis purpurea
Triplasis purpurea, the purple sand-grass, is a species of grass in the family Poaceae native to North America.
The specific epithet purpurea is Latin for "purple", referencing the purple spikelets of the grass.


Description
Triplasis purpurea up grows to 13 dm (51 in) in height.
Its wiry, tufted culms are either widely spreading or ascending, with pubescent nodes.
The leaf sheathes and small, rigid leaves of the grass are scabrous.
The ligule is a ring of short hairs.
Its terminal panicles are 3–7 cm (1.2–2.8 in) long, with rigid and divergent branches.
The rose-purple spikelets of the grass are 5–8 mm (0.20–0.31 in) long with two to five flowers and have rather short pedicels.
The flowering scales are oblong and twice lobed at their apex, with glabrous lower scales.
The joints of the rachilla are as half as long as the flowering scales.
The awn of the lemma barely exceeds its truncate lobes.
The grass flowers from August to October.


Distribution and habitat
Triplasis purpurea is endemic to North America, mostly throughout along eastern coast but also in the midwest.
The grass prefers the sandy dunes and beaches of the Atlantic coast, Gulf coast, and the Great Lakes, though it can also occur in disturbed areas inland such as roadsides.


References

Ultraman Ginga Theater Special: Ultra Monster Hero Battle Royal!
Ultraman Ginga Theater Special: Ultra Monster Hero Battle Royal!
(ウルトラマンギンガ 劇場スペシャル ウルトラ怪獣☆ヒーロー大乱戦!, Urutoraman Ginga Gekijō Supesharu Urutora Kaijū Hīrō Dairansen!) is a Japanese tokusatsu, and superhero film, serving as the film adaptation of the 2013 Ultra Series television series Ultraman Ginga.
It was released on March 15, 2014, which takes place sometime after the season finale of Ultraman Ginga.
This movie is double-billed with short CGI movie, Mega Monster Rush: Ultra Frontier - Verokron Hunting (大怪獣ラッシュ ウルトラフロンティア VEROKRON hunting, Dai Kaijū Rasshu Urutora Furontia Berokuron Hantingu), one of the shorts for the 2013 cardass game Mega Monster Rush: Ultra Frontier, which played first before the premier of the movie.
A DVD and Blu-Ray release of the movie was sold on July 25, 2014 by Bandai Visual, costing around 3,800 and 4,800 Yen respectively.
The main catchphrase in this movie is Gathering!
The New 5 Ultra Brothers!?
UltLive Top Decisive Battle Begins!!!
(集結!新ウルトラ5兄弟!?
ウルトライブ頂上決戦開幕!!!, Shūketsu!
Shin Urutora Go-kyōdai!?
Urutoraibu Chōjō Kessen Kaimaku!!!).


Synopsis


Mega Monster Rush: Ultra Frontier - Verokron Hunting
The Rush Hunters fight against Verokron in a remote planet, but while the team tried to retreat from Verokron's assaults Magma suddenly grabbed one of the missiles heading for him and throw it against Verokron.
Discovering that he possessed a hidden ability, Barel and Garm diverted Verokron's attention long enough for Magma to summon the mysterious power again and uses one of Verokron's missiles against the Terrible-Monster, destroying it once the warhead enters its own body.
Although the viewers of the Hunter Station celebrated their victory, but the planet that Verokron previously spotted was destroyed and released the Plasma-Killersaurus, which awakens dormant Plasma crystal monsters.
Due to this, various participants, including the Rush Hunters prepared for another course of the game.


Spark Dolls Theater
The cast of the Spark Dolls Theater (Black King, Thunder Darambia, Kemur-Man, King Pandon and Ragon) thank the viewers for supporting Ultraman Ginga for the past years.
The group then asks the viewers to sing along the Ultraman Ginga no Uta before Red king, Doragory and Mochiron joins in.


Ultraman Ginga Theater Special: Ultra Monster ☆ Hero Battle Royal!

The movie starts with clips of past Ultraman Ginga episodes alongside events from the past movie while the Ultraman Ginga no Uta song being played.
Cut to the present day, Tomoya leisurely sketches the Ultra Monsters in his sketchbook but an unknown forces suddenly radiated the book.
Misuzu, Kenta and Chigusa were called to an office and discovered several Spark Dolls, which were thought to be sent to the outer space but somehow returned to Earth.
Hikaru soon arrives, having rode an airplane from London and together, the party were transported into a virtual room by Tomoya's Gunpad.
The room itself has several Spark Dolls in collection.
He introduced them the Livepad (ライブパッド, Raibupaddo), a tablet which allows its user to use UltLive simulations simply by scanning the Spark Doll via the tip of its pointer pen.
The group soon played using multiple monster Spark Dolls until Hikaru used Ultraman Ginga and the rest of them decided to follow him as well, much to Hikaru's dismay as no Ultraman ever fought each other.
Tomoya becomes Ultraman, Kenta as Ultraseven, Chigusa as Ultraman Tiga and Misuzu as Ultraman Taro.
While Hikaru still trying to cope with the events, five dark Ultra Warriors appeared out of nowhere: Chaos Ultraman, Chaosroid T, Evil Tiga, Chaosroid S and Chaosroid U.
With even Tomoya not knowing what actually happened, the team had no choice but to fight their counterparts.
The battle turns deadlier, as the safety of Hikaru and his friend's consciousness at stake due to being in the Livepad.
If they loses, their consciousness would not return to the real world and since the evil Ultra Warriors are not simulations, their strength are comparably superior to the party's Lived Ultras.
During that time, the real Ultraman Ginga contacts Hikaru via telepathy, reminding the youth of his promise to travel around the Earth and reunite once his adventures were over.
This gives Hikaru and his friends the strength to fight back the dark Ultra Warriors with their finishers.
Their victory however is short lived, as the virtual program is lost when Tomoya's worker accidentally tripped over some wires, although the party managed to return to the real life.
The fake Spark Dolls were lost as well but was revealed to have been returned to Tomoya's sketchbook, which he tried to hide from his friends.
Meanwhile, news was broadcast which reported on a cosmic energy radiation that bathed the Earth at the same time.
Hotsuma Raidō recite a prayer, which was meant to thank the viewers as Hikaru and his friends (with the whole party except Hotsuma shrunken to be placed on Ginga's palm) cheered the viewers as well for their support.
In the epilogue, Gavadon Alpha and Beta's Spark Dolls appear with the text "The End" (おしまい, Oshimai) before the screen fading in black.


Cast


Mega Monster Rush: Ultra Frontier - Verokron Hunting
Baltan Batler Barrel (バルタンバトラー・バレル, Barutan Batorā Bareru; Voice): Daisuke Hirakawa (平川 大輔, Hirakawa Daisuke)
Guts Gunner Garm (ガッツガンナー・ガルム, Gattsu Gannā Garumu; Voice): Binbin Takaoka (高岡 瓶々, Takaoka Binbin)
Magma Master Magna (マグママスター・マグナ, Maguma Masutā Maguna; Voice): Toshinari Fukamachi (深町 寿成, Fukamachi Toshinari)
Alien Mefilas Djent (メフィラス星人 ジェント, Mefirasu Seijin Jento; Voice): Kento Fujinuma (藤沼 建人, Fujinuma Kento)
Kanegon a Kindo (カネゴン・ア・キンド; Voice): Chihiro Uno (うの ちひろ, Uno Chihiro)


Ultraman Ginga Theater Special
Hikaru Raidō (礼堂 ヒカル, Raidō Hikaru): Takuya Negishi (根岸 拓哉, Negishi Takuya)
Misuzu Isurugi (石動 美鈴, Isurugi Misuzu): Mio Miyatake (宮武 美桜, Miyatake Mio)
Kenta Watarai (渡会 健太, Watarai Kenta): Mizuki Ohno (大野 瑞生, Ōno Mizuki)
Chigusa Kuno (久野 千草, Kuno Chigusa): Kirara (雲母)
Tomoya Ichijōji (一条寺 友也, Ichijōji Tomoya): Takuya Kusakawa (草川 拓弥, Kusakawa Takuya)
Secretary: Megumi Nishimuta (西牟田 恵, Nishimuta Megumi)
Toshiko Mimatsu (三松 としこ, Mimatsu Toshiko): Megumi Araki (荒木 めぐみ, Araki Megumi)
Interviewed man: Toshio Miike (三池 敏夫, Miike Toshio)
Hotsuma Raidō (礼堂 ホツマ, Raidō Hotsuma): Masahiko Tsugawa (津川 雅彦, Tsugawa Masahiko)
Ultraman Taro (ウルトラマンタロウ, Urutoraman Tarō; Voice): Hiroya Ishimaru (石丸 博也, Ishimaru Hiroya)
Ultraman Ginga (ウルトラマンギンガ, Urutoraman Ginga; Voice): Tomokazu Sugita (杉田 智和, Sugita Tomokazu)
Ginga Spark/Livepad Voice: Yoshihisa Kawahara (川原 慶久, Kawahara Yoshihisa)


Spark Dolls Theater
Black King (ブラックキング, Burakku Kingu): Tetsuo Kishi (岸 哲生, Kishi Tetsuo)
Thunder Darambia (サンダーダランビア, Sandā Daranbia): Kenta Matsumoto (松本 健太, Matsumoto Kenta)
Kemur Man (ケムール人, Kemūru Jin): Kōichi Toshima (外島 孝一, Toshima Kōichi)
King Pandon (キングパンドン, Kingu Pandon), Ragon (ラゴン): Akiko Tanaka (田中 晶子, Tanaka Akiko)


Songs
Opening/Insert theme
"Ultraman Ginga no Uta" (ウルトラマンギンガの歌, Urutoraman Ginga no Uta; "The Song of Ultraman Ginga")
Lyrics: Hideki Tama (田靡 秀樹, Tama Hideki), Sei Okazaki (岡崎 聖, Okazaki Sei)
Composition & Arrangement: Takao Konishi (小西 貴雄, Konishi Takao)
Artist: Voyager with Chisa (千紗) (Girl Next Door), Maria Haruna (マリア春菜), Hiroaki Takeuchi (竹内 浩明, Takeuchi Hiroaki), Hikaru (Takuya Negishi), Misuzu (Mio Miyatake), Kenta (Mizuki Ohno), Chigusa (Kirara), Tomoya (Takuya Kusakawa)
Ending theme
"Starlight"
Lyrics & Composition & Arrangement: Mayuko Maruyama (丸山 真由子, Maruyama Mayuko)
Artist: Ultra Bullet Train (ウルトラ超特急, Urutora Chōtokkyū)
Verse 2 and onwards


References

Akhand Kirtani Jatha
The Akhand Kirtani Jatha, alternatively romanized as the Akhand Keertanee Jathaa and abbreviated as AKJ, is a jatha (collective group) and sect of Sikhism dedicated to the Sikh lifestyle.
The Jatha follows a strict discipline in keeping the Rehat of Guru Gobind Singh.
They also enjoy an active style of Keertan recited by Sikhs in a collective manner in front of Guru Granth Sahib.
This style of Keertan is relatively simple, and the entire congregation devotionally participates in singing along.
The Jatha's purpose is to provide Sikhs around the world with Sangat (companionship with enlightened souls), just like any other Jatha or group within the greater Khalsa Panth.
The Jatha organizes Kirtan Smagams in cities around the world.
The Jatha attempts to follows a strict discipline in keeping the Rehat of Guru Gobind Singh.
They also enjoy an active style of Keertan recited by Sikhs in a collective manner in front of Guru Granth Sahib.
This style of Keertan is relatively simple, and the entire congregation devotionally participates in singing along.
Randhir Singh embodied this lifestyle of strict personal discipline.
He wrote many articles on Gurbani and the Sikh lifestyle.
He was a dedicated Gursikh who fought injustice and always remained in Chardi Kala (high spirits).


History
The Jatha (group) was started in the late 1800s, when Mata Gulab Kaur, a spiritually enlightened Gursikh woman asked Bhai Randhir Singh to re-invigorate the Khalsa Panth with Kirtan.


Randhir Singh

Randhir Singh (1878–1961) was from Ludhiana.
He opposed the British rule and was imprisoned by the British authorities in 1914 till 1931.
Bhai Randhir Singh was given the title of "Bhai Sahib" and the suffix "Ji" from the Panth as he was honoured by all the 4 "Takhts" (5th Takhat was ordained later on) or supreme centres for Sikhs for committing his life for the sacrifice of the Panth and always propagating the true message of Gurmat and inspiring people to take Amrit.
Bhai Randhir Singh and Bhai Veer Singh were the only Sikhs to receive this title in the 20th century.
Bhai Sahib Randhir Singh ji was very prominent in the Panthik arena.
There was wide recognition of his high Jeevan and Panthik Kurbani.
Many of the jatha went to jail in the anti – British movement, and suffered a lot of torture.
Bhai Sahib and Baba Attar Singh with many other Gursikhs had brought a lot of change in the Panth via the Gurdwara Sudhaar Movement.
They worked under the banner of the Panch Khalsa Divan.


Akhand Kirtani Jatha (AKJ)

For a long time, the Jatha did not have an official name.
In the past, it was often referred to as the "Waheguru Singhs".
In one such text, this was because people would say that everywhere these Gursikhs went, they would walk, talk, work, sleep, with Waheguru resounding around them.
Other names for the Jatha have included the Nirban Kirtani Jatha and "Bhai Randhir Singh da Jatha".
The name AKJ only became common when Randhir Singh started doing Kirtan in all of the historical Gurdwaras.
It was when Bhai Sahib started doing his marathon non-stop kirtan sessions that the name Akhand Kirtani Jatha (non-stop kirtan group) became prominent and was used often by the SGPC officials and the historical Gurdwaras where they performed Kirtan.
This was how the name Akhand Kirtani Jatha came into existence.
Bhai Sahib never named the Jatha and only referred to it as ‘the Jatha’, a name commonly used in India, which means a group.
The name was started by Parbandaks and managers of the Gurdwaras; later it got registered in the 1970s, as was the case with most panthic groups.
Today it is a worldwide organization which spreads the message of Shabad Guru, and considers itself a part of the Khalsa Panth and not a separate entity.


Beliefs
AKJ follows the rules (Panthic Rehit Maryada) set by SGPC.
The Jatha fully align itself with Akal Takht and the Khalsa Panth.
The Jatha views itself as being completely under the umbrella of Akal Takht and the Khalsa Panth.
 The four transgressions, which must be avoided are:
(1) Dishonouring the hair, 
(2) Eating Kutha meat, 
(3) Intimate relationship with a person other than one’s spouse, and

(4) Using tobacco (i.e.
intoxicants).In addition to the Sikh Rehit Maryada, AKJ follows a stricter form of rehit.



Nitnem Banis
AKJ follows the Nitnem maryada followed by the Sikh Panth.
The 5 Banis recited every morning are the same Banis that are recited when preparing Amrit during Amrit ceremony.
On 28 April 1985, the Akal Takaht issued a Hukamnama which ordered the SGPC to make the appropriate amendment in the Sikh Rehat Maryada, which reflects that the morning Nitnem is 5 Banis.
A Gursikh learns from the Amrit Sanchar that the Banis being read there should be read every day so that the internal Amrit is experienced every day.
The Nitnem banis read every day by Gursikhs in AKJ are the same Nitnem Banis prescribed by Sri Akal Takhat Sahib:

Japji Sahib
Jaap Sahib
Tav Prasad Savaiye
Chaupai Sahib
Anand Sahib
Rehraas Sahib
Kirtan Sohila
In addition to the following banis, Sikhs try to add as many banis as possible to their daily rehit.


Sarbloh Bibek
The Akhand Kirtani Jatha follows Sarbloh Bibek, which involves eating from iron bowls and iron plates only.
Another key aspect to maintaining Sarbloh Bibek is that Sikhs must only eat food prepared by other Amritdhari (baptized) Sikhs.
Amritdhari Sikhs are also not to eat Jootha food (previously eaten food) from non-Amritdharis.


Vegetarianism (egg-free)

Eating "Kuttha" meat is prohibited in Sikh Rehit Maryada.
The Sikh Rehat Maryada and some Sikh scholars define Kutthaa as meat "slaughtered in the Muslim way" (Halaal meat).
The Jatha believes that  Kutthaa means "killed meat" (i.e.
killed in any way).
Thus, the code of vegetarianism is followed by Akhand Kirtani Jatha.


Keski as one of the 5Ks
According to the Panthic Sikh Rehit Maryada, published by the SGPC, the five K’s are:I.
 The Keshas (unshorn hair),
II.
The Kirpan {sheathed sword} (The length of the sword to be worn is not prescribed, although Damdami Taksaal mentions a minimum of 9 inch-Kirpan),
III.
The Kachhehra (The Kachhehra (drawers like garment) may be made from any cloth, but its  legs should not reach down to below the shins.),
IV.
The Kanga (comb),

V.
The Karha {iron bracelet} (The Karha should be of pure iron (also known as Sarabloh, or wrought iron).)The Jatha, believes Keski is a kakkaar, not Kesh.
They base this on references in the historical text of "Guru Kian Sakhian" (also known as "Bhatt Vehee") and other Rehatnamas.
Promoting the wearing of a Keski (turban) shows greater respect and reverence for the sacred hair.
It also helps avoid the violation of damaging or dishonouring one's hair which is one of the 4 Bajjar Kurehits (cardinal sins), according to Sikh Rehit Maryada.
Since most male Sikhs already wear a keski (turban), keski as a kakkar makes turban wearing a requirement for women as well.
During the Singh Sabha movement, there was a push to make Sikh women more dinstuishable from Hindu and Muslim women in-order to consolidate and standardize a separate Sikh identity.
The Panch Khalsa Diwan, a radical faction on the fringes of the Singh Sabha movement led by Teja Singh Bhasaur, advocated for both of its male and female members to wear a turban.
Women who refused to wear the turban were not allowed to become initiated by the Panch Khalsa Diwan.
However, the faction eventually was sidelined by the dominant Tat Khalsa faction of the movement and disappeared.
However, the Panch Khalsa Diwan's practice of making Sikh women wear a turban influenced Bhai Randhir Singh, founder of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha, who adopted the practice of Sikh women wearing a turban.
Thus, the Akhand Kirtani Jatha enforces the turban on its female members.


Raagmala

The Panthic Sikh Rehat Maryada states:"The reading of the whole Guru Granth Sahib (intermittent or non-stop) may be concluded with the reading of Mundawani or the Rag Mala according to the convention traditionally observed at the concerned place.
(Since there is a difference of opinion within the Panth on this issue, nobody should dare to write or print a copy of the Guru Granth Sahib excluding the Rag Mala).
Thereafter, after reciting the Anand Sahib, the Ardas of the conclusion of   the reading should be offered and the sacred pudding (Karhah Prashad) distributed."Raagmala is the title of a composition of twelve verses, running into sixty lines, appended to Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji as a table or index of raags that appears after the "Mundaavni", i.e.
the epilogue or "closing seal".
The authorship of Raagmala has been the subject of controversy; more so the point of whether it should form part of the recitation of Gurbani in its entirety (i.e.
being included in Sehaj Paath or Akhand Paath bhog/completion).
The Jatha, do not believe in Raagmala being composed or written by the Guru Sahibs, but was added to Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji at a later date.


Organisation
The current official AKJ leadership details are:


Five Members Committee
Harbhajan Singh (Anandpur Saaheb)
Sahib Singh (Ludhiana)
Karam Singh (Tanda)
Hardial Singh (Gurdaspur)
Avtar Singh (Mallian)


Jathedaar
Bakhsheesh Singh (Phagwara)


References


External links
https://akj.org/

Zarza de Montánchez
Zarza de Montánchez is a municipality located in the Sierra de Montánchez area, province of Cáceres, Extremadura, Spain.
According to the 2006 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 631 inhabitants.


See also
List of municipalities in Cáceres


References

Reanimation (Lights & Motion album)
Reanimation is the debut studio album by Swedish post-rock musical project Lights & Motion, led by musician and native born Christoffer Franzén.
It was released worldwide on January 16, 2013, through the American independent record label Deep Elm Records.
The album was produced by Christoffer Franzén and recorded in Gothenburg during 2011 and 2012.
The album contains thirteen tracks and has a total running time of 67 minutes.


Background and recording
Prior to recording Reanimation in 2011 and 2012, Franzén suffered from insomnia.
This led to him spending time alone in a small studio in Gothenburg, experimenting with different ways of writing and recording music.
Being self-taught in every aspect of his musicianship, he went through a long period of trial and error, trying to get a grasp on how to get what he heard in his head to come out of the speakers.
After releasing a few demos online around 2011 and 2012, a buzz started to grow in the alternative and postrock scene, eventually garnering the attention of American independent record label Deep Elm Records, who later signed the band in 2012.
The band started to work towards releasing their debut album in 2012, which came to be called Reanimation.
Because of budget constraints, the album would be completely produced, engineered and mix by Franzén himself, stating that; "There is just this urge, this need to create and it takes on different shapes.
I never know what I will end up with, and it's often very different from what I started out with.
Sometimes I tell people that this album consists of my dreams...only I wasn't sleeping with they came to me, I just did my best to get them down on tape."


Style
Reanimation is known for its guitar driven sound, often reaching and building towards euphoric crescendoes.
The album also made a mark for itself by introducing a very cinematic sound into the postrock genre, introducing string arrangements and glockenspiel to an already busy mix of drums, reverberated electric guitars and ambient sounds.
Other bands that influenced the sound of this album were Coldplay, M83, Sigur Rós and Explosions in the Sky, as well as film music, particularly from Hans Zimmer.

The album is pretty much instrumental all the way through, except for some quietly whispered words tucked in low in the mix on tracks like "The March" and "Reanimation", the exception being the final track, "Dream Away", which features full-on vocals with lyrics.


Track listing
All songs composed by Christoffer Franzén.


Personnel


Lights & Motion
Christoffer Franzén – guitar, keyboards, vocals, drums, bass guitar, synthesizers, string arrangements, programming, production, mixing, engineering, piano, sound design


References

CPSA
CPSA may refer to:

Caborrojeños Pro Salud y Ambiente, Cabo Rojo, Puerto Rico
Canadian Political Science Association
Canadian Professional Sales Association
The Center for Palladian Studies in America, Inc.
China Practical Shooting Association
Church of the Province of Southern Africa, the former name of the Anglican Church of Southern Africa
Civil and Public Services Association, a former British trade union
Clay Pigeon Shooting Association, governing the sport in England
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta
Communist Party in Saudi Arabia
Communist Party of South Africa
Consumer Product Safety Act

Phraates IV
Phraates IV  (also spelled Frahad IV; Parthian: 𐭐𐭓𐭇𐭕 Frahāt) was King of Kings of the Parthian Empire from 37 to 2 BC.
He was the son and successor of Orodes II (r. 57–37 BC), and was given the throne after the death of his brother Pacorus I.
Phraates IV soon murdered all his brothers, and also possibly his father.
His actions alienated the Armenians and also some of his nobles, including the distinguished Monaeses, who fled to the Roman triumvir Mark Antony, but shortly returned and reconciled with Phraates IV.
Phraates IV was attacked in 36 BC by Mark Antony, who marched through Armenia into Media Atropatene, and was defeated and lost the greater part of his army.
Antony, believing himself betrayed by Artavasdes II, king of Armenia, invaded his kingdom in 34 BC, took him prisoner, and concluded a treaty with Artavasdes I, king of Media Atropatene.
But when the war with Octavian broke out, Antony could not maintain his conquests; Phraates IV recovered Media Atropatene and made Artaxias, the son of Artavasdes II, king of Armenia.
Around the same time, Phraates IV's throne was usurped by Tiridates II, but he quickly managed to reestablish his rule with the aid of Scythian nomads.
Tiridates fled to the Romans, taking one of Phraates IV's sons with him.
In negotiations conducted in 20 BC, Phraates IV arranged for the release of his kidnapped son.
In return, the Romans received the lost legionary standards taken at Carrhae in 53 BC, as well as any surviving prisoners of war.
The Parthians viewed this exchange as a small price to pay to regain the prince.
Along with the prince, Octavian (now known as Augustus) gave Phraates IV a girl named Musa, who quickly became queen and a favourite of Phraates IV, giving birth to Phraataces (Phraates V).
Seeking to secure the throne for her son, Musa convinced Phraates IV to send his four first-born sons (Vonones, Phraates, Seraspandes and Rhodaspes) to Rome in order to prevent conflict over his succession.
In 2 BC, Musa had Phraates IV poisoned and made herself along with Phraates V the co-rulers of the empire.


Name
Phraátēs (Φραάτης) is the Greek form of the Parthian Frahāt (𐭐𐭓𐭇𐭕), itself from the Old Iranian *Frahāta- ("gained, earned").
The Modern Persian version is Farhād (فرهاد).


Consolidation of power
In 38 BC, the heir to the Parthian throne, Pacorus I was defeated and killed at the Battle of Mount Gindarus by a Roman force.
His death spurred a succession crisis in which Orodes II (r. 57–37 BC), deeply afflicted by the death of his favourite son, relinquished the throne to his other son Phraates IV.
Orodes II died soon afterwards.
His cause of death is uncertain.
According to Cassius Dio, he had either died of grief due to Pacorus' death, or of old age.
Plutarch, however, states that Orodes was murdered by Phraates IV.
Fearing that his position might become endangered, Phraates IV executed all his half-brothers–the sons of Orodes and his Commagenian wife Laodice, partially due to their maternal descent being greater than that of his own.
Laodice was probably killed as well.


Phraates IV also had supporters of his brothers and his own opponents sent into exile; one of them, Monaeses, a Parthian nobleman who had distinguished himself as a military leader under Orodes II, fled to Syria, where he took refuge with the Roman triumvir Mark Antony.
There Monaeses urged him to attack Parthia, and promised him to spearhead the troops and conquer the empire without any difficulties.
Antony granted Monaeses three cities—Larissa, Hierapolis and Arethusa, and promised him the Parthian throne.
Around the same time, Antony had restored Roman rule in Jerusalem, and executed the King of the Jews Antigonus II Mattathias, who was succeeded by Herod the Great.
The relations between Parthia and Armenia had also been damaged, due to the death of Pacorus I (who was married into the Armenian royal house) and Phraates IV's treatment of his brothers and some of the nobility, which upset the Armenians.
The Parthians took the defection of Monaeses very serious, and as a result Phraates IV invited Monaeses back to the country and reconciled with him.


War with Mark Antony

The following year, when Antony marched to Theodosiopolis, Artavasdes II of Armenia defected to the Roman side by sending Antony additional troops.
Antony invaded Media Atropatene, then ruled by Parthia's ally Artavasdes I, with the intention of seizing the capital Praaspa, the location of which is now unknown.
However, Phraates IV ambushed Antony's rear detachment, destroying a giant battering ram meant for the siege of Praaspa; after this, Artavasdes II abandoned Antony's forces.
The Parthians pursued and harassed Antony's army as it fled to Armenia.
Eventually, the greatly weakened force reached Syria.
The defeat of Antony, along with that of Crassus at Carrhae in 53 BC, would be remembered by Romans for a long period, and often incited them to invade Parthia in later events.
After this, Antony lured Artavasdes II into a trap with the promise of a marriage alliance.
He was taken captive in 34 BC, paraded in Antony's mock Roman triumph in Alexandria, Egypt, and eventually executed by Cleopatra VII of the Ptolemaic Kingdom.
Antony attempted to strike an alliance with Artavasdes I of Media Atropatene, whose relations with Phraates IV had recently soured.
This was abandoned when Antony and his forces withdrew from Armenia in 33 BC; they escaped a Parthian invasion while Antony's rival Octavian attacked his forces to the west.
According to Cassius Dio, Phraates IV murdered the Commagenian King Antiochus I in c. 31 BC.
Following Antony's suicide in Egypt followed by that of his wife Cleopatra in 30 BC, the Parthian ally Artaxias II reassumed the throne of Armenia.


Brief overthrow, diplomatic correspondence with Augustus and death

Following the defeat of Antony and Cleopatra of Ptolemaic Egypt at the Battle of Actium in 31 BC, Octavian consolidated his political power and in 27 BC was named Augustus by the Roman Senate, becoming the first Roman emperor.
Around this time, Tiridates II of Parthia briefly overthrew Phraates IV, who was able to quickly reestablish his rule with the aid of Scythian nomads.
Tiridates fled to the Romans, taking one of Phraates IV's sons with him.
In negotiations conducted in 20 BC, Phraates IV arranged for the release of his kidnapped son.
In return, the Romans received the lost legionary standards taken at Carrhae in 53 BC, as well as any surviving prisoners of war.
The Parthians viewed this exchange as a small price to pay to regain the prince.
Augustus hailed the return of the standards as a political victory over Parthia; this propaganda was celebrated in the minting of new coins, the building of a new temple to house the standards, and even in fine art such as the breastplate scene on his statue Augustus of Prima Porta.
Along with the prince, Augustus gave Phraates IV a slave-girl named Musa, who quickly became queen and a favourite of Phraates IV, giving birth to Phraataces (Phraates V).
Emma Strugnell (2008) has suggested that Augustus' choice to send Musa may have been an attempt to obtain information or influence the Parthian king to the advantage of the Romans.
She further adds that "Augustus could potentially launch a punitive invasion against Parthia, with the probable aim of converting it into a Roman province." According to the Parchments of Avroman, Phraates IV had already at least four other queens at that time: Olennieire, Cleopatra, Baseirta and Bistheibanaps.
Seeking to secure the throne for her son, Musa convinced Phraates IV in 10/9 BC to send his four first-born sons (Vonones, Phraates, Seraspandes and Rhodaspes) to Rome in order to prevent conflict over his succession.
Again, Augustus used this as propaganda depicting the submission of Parthia to Rome, listing it as a great accomplishment in his Res Gestae Divi Augusti.
In 2 BC, Musa had the aged Phraates IV poisoned and made herself along with Phraates V the co-rulers of the empire.


Coinage

Under Phraates IV and his father, the production of coins reached its zenith, with the only Parthian ruler having similar numbers being Mithridates II (r. 124–88 BC).
Phraates IV mostly kept the same style of Parthian coinage that was used under his father.
The obverse of his coins portrays him with short hair and beard, along with a visible moustache.
According to the modern historian Vesta Sarkhosh Curtis, the portrait greatly resembles the Shami statue, discovered in the Bakhtiari mountains in southwestern Iran, and currently stored in the National Museum of Iran in Tehran.
A bird of prey is present behind his head, which is associated with the khvarenah, i.e.
kingly glory.
The bird, possibly a symbol of the bird of the deity Verethragna, is holding a diadem, a wreath or a ring.
The reverse depicts a seated archer wearing a soft cap (bashlyk) and sitting on a throne.
Curtis notes its close resemblance to the thrones of the Achaemenid monarchs portrayed on the rock reliefs at Persepolis.
Other reverse of his coins, however depicts an investiture scene, where Orodes is receiving a scepter by the Greek goddess Tyche.
In the Parthian era, Iranians used Hellenistic iconography to portray their divine figures, thus the investiture scene can be associated with the khvarenah, with Tyche being either a representation of Anahita or Ashi.
The titling of Phraates IV on his coinage was: "[coin] of the King of Kings, Arsakes, Just, Benefactor, Illustrious, Philhellene."


Family


Marriages
Phraates IV had the following wives:

Olennieire
Cleopatra
Baseirta
Bistheibanaps
Musa


Issue
Vonones I, eldest son and Parthian King from 8 to 12.
Subsequently King of Armenia from 12 to 18.
Phraates, one of his first-born sons, attempted to take the Parthian throne from Artabanus II in 35.
Seraspandes, one of his first-born sons, sent to Rome, where he remained till his death.
Rhodaspes, one of his first-born sons, sent to Rome, where he remained till his death.
Karen, the eponymous founder of the House of Karen, one of the Seven Great Houses of Iran.
Unnamed daughter, who was the mother of Artabanus II.
Phraataces (Phraates V), Parthian King from 2 BC to 4 AD.


References


Bibliography


Ancient works
Cassius Dio, Roman History
Plutarch, Parallel Lives


Modern works
Bivar, A.D.H.
(1983).
"The Political History of Iran Under the Arsacids".
In Yarshater, Ehsan (ed.).
The Cambridge History of Iran.
Vol.
3(1): The Seleucid, Parthian and Sasanian Periods.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
pp.
21–99.
ISBN 0-521-20092-X.
Bigwood, J.
M.
(2004).
"Queen Mousa, Mother and Wife(?) of King Phraatakes of Parthia: A Re-evaluation of the Evidence".
Journal of the Classical Association of Canada.
4 (1).
Project Muse: 35–70.
doi:10.1353/mou.2004.0027.
S2CID 164436127.
Bigwood, Joan M.
(2008).
"Some Parthian Queens in Greek and Babylonian Documents".
Iranica Antiqua.
43: 235–274.
doi:10.2143/IA.43.0.2024050.
Boyce, Mary (1984).
Zoroastrians: Their Religious Beliefs and Practices.
Psychology Press.
pp.
1–252.
ISBN 9780415239028.
Boyce, Mary; Grenet, Frantz (1991).
Beck, Roger (ed.).
A History of Zoroastrianism, Zoroastrianism under Macedonian and Roman Rule.
Leiden: Brill.
ISBN 978-9004293915.
Brosius, Maria (2000).
"Women i.
In Pre-Islamic Persia".
Encyclopædia Iranica, online edition.
New York.{{cite encyclopedia}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Brosius, Maria (2006), The Persians: An Introduction, London & New York: Routledge, ISBN 978-0-415-32089-4
Bringmann, Klaus (2007) [2002].
A History of the Roman Republic.
Translated by W.
J.
Smyth.
Cambridge: Polity Press.
ISBN 978-0-7456-3371-8.
Burstein, Stanley M.
(2004), The Reign of Cleopatra, Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, ISBN 978-0-313-32527-4.
Curtis, Vesta Sarkhosh (2007).
"Religious Iconography on Ancient Iranian coins".
Journal of Late Antiquity.
London: 413–434.
Curtis, Vesta Sarkhosh (2012).
"Parthian Coins: Kingship and Divine Glory": 67–83.
{{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Curtis, Vesta Sarkhosh (2016).
"Ancient Iranian Motifs and Zoroastrian Iconography".
In Williams, Markus; Stewart, Sarah; Hintze, Almut (eds.).
The Zoroastrian Flame Exploring Religion, History and Tradition.
I.B.
Tauris.
pp.
179–203.
ISBN 9780857728159.
Dąbrowa, Edward (2012).
"The Arsacid Empire".
In Daryaee, Touraj (ed.).
The Oxford Handbook of Iranian History.
Oxford University Press.
pp.
1–432.
ISBN 978-0-19-987575-7.
Dąbrowa, Edward (2017).
"Tacitus on the Parthians".
Electrum.
42: 171–189.
doi:10.4467/20800909EL.17.026.7508.
Dąbrowa, Edward (2018).
"Arsacid Dynastic Marriages".
Electrum.
25: 73–83.
doi:10.4467/20800909EL.18.005.8925.
Garthwaite, Gene Ralph (2005), The Persians, Oxford & Carlton: Blackwell Publishing, Ltd., ISBN 978-1-55786-860-2.
Kia, Mehrdad (2016).
The Persian Empire: A Historical Encyclopedia [2 volumes].
ABC-CLIO.
ISBN 978-1610693912.
Kennedy, David (1996), "Parthia and Rome: Eastern Perspectives", in Kennedy, David L.; Braund, David (eds.), The Roman Army in the East, Ann Arbor: Cushing Malloy Inc., Journal of Roman Archaeology: Supplementary Series Number Eighteen, pp.
67–90, ISBN 978-1-887829-18-2
Metcalf, William E.
(2016).
The Oxford Handbook of Greek and Roman Coinage.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
ISBN 9780199372188.
Olbrycht, Marek Jan (2014).
"The Genealogy of Artabanos II (AD 8/9–39/40), King of Parthia": 92–97.
doi:10.6084/M9.FIGSHARE.12400685.V2.
{{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Olbrycht, Marek Jan (2016).
"Dynastic Connections in the Arsacid Empire and the Origins of the House of Sāsān".
In Curtis, Vesta Sarkhosh; Pendleton, Elizabeth J.; Alram, Michael; Daryaee, Touraj (eds.).
The Parthian and Early Sasanian Empires: Adaptation and Expansion.
Oxbow Books.
ISBN 9781785702082.
Pourshariati, Parvaneh (2017).
"Kārin".
Encyclopædia Iranica, online edition.
New York.{{cite encyclopedia}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Rezakhani, Khodadad (2013).
"Arsacid, Elymaean, and Persid Coinage".
In Potts, Daniel T.
(ed.).
The Oxford Handbook of Ancient Iran.
Oxford University Press.
ISBN 978-0199733309.
Richardson, J.S.
(2012).
Augustan Rome 44 BC to AD 14: The Restoration of the Republic and the Establishment of the Empire.
Edinburgh University Press.
ISBN 978-0-7486-1954-2.
Roller, Duane W.
(2010), Cleopatra: A Biography, Oxford: Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-536553-5.
Russell, James R.
(1987).
Zoroastrianism in Armenia.
Harvard University Press.
ISBN 978-0674968509.
Schippmann, K.
(1986).
"Arsacids ii.
The Arsacid Dynasty".
Encyclopædia Iranica, online edition, Vol.
II, Fasc.
5.
pp.
525–536.
Schmitt, Rüdiger (2005).
"Personal Names, Iranian iv.
Parthian Period".
Encyclopædia Iranica, online edition.
New York.{{cite encyclopedia}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Strugnell, Emma (2006), "Ventidius' Parthian War: Rome's Forgotten Eastern Triumph", Acta Antiqua, 46 (3): 239–252, doi:10.1556/AAnt.46.2006.3.3
Strugnell, Emma (2008).
"Thea Musa, Roman Queen of Parthia".
Iranica Antiqua.
43: 275–298.
doi:10.2143/IA.43.0.2024051.
Widengren, G.
(1986).
"Antiochus of Commagene".
Encyclopædia Iranica, online edition, Vol.
II, Fasc.
2.
pp.
135–136.


Further reading
Dąbrowa, Edward (2007).
"The Parthian Kingship": 123–134.
{{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Dąbrowa, Edward (2010).
"Arsakes Epiphanes.
Were the Arsacids Deities "Revealed"?".
Studi Ellenistici (24): 223–231.
doi:10.1400/159701.
Dąbrowa, Edward (2013).
"The Parthian Aristocracy: Its Social Position and Political Activity".
Parthica: Incontri di Culture Nel Mondo Antico: 15, 2013 (15): 53–62.
doi:10.1400/220818.
Marciak, Michał (2017).
Sophene, Gordyene, and Adiabene: Three Regna Minora of Northern Mesopotamia Between East and West.
BRILL.
ISBN 9789004350724.
Olbrycht, Marek Jan (1997).
"Parthian King's tiara - Numismatic evidence and some aspects of Arsacid political ideology".
2: 27–61.
{{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Olbrycht, Marek Jan (2015).
"Arsacid Iran and the nomads of Central Asia – Ways of cultural transfer".
Complexity of Interaction Along the Eurasian Steppe Zone in the First Millenium Ce, Edited by Jan Bemmann, Michael Schmauder (Bonn Contributions to Asian Archaeology, Volume 7) Bonn 2015 [Vor- und Fruhgeschichtliche Archäologie, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn]: 333–390.
Shayegan, M.
Rahim (2011).
Arsacids and Sasanians: Political Ideology in Post-Hellenistic and Late Antique Persia.
Cambridge University Press.
pp.
1–539.
ISBN 9780521766418.

Max Lemke (canoeist)
Max Lemke (born 2 December 1996) is a German sprint canoeist.
He participated at the 2018 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships.


References


External links
Max Lemke at the International Canoe Federation
Max Lemke at the German Olympic Sports Confederation (in German)
Max Lemke at Olympedia

Kevin Goodan
Kevin Goodan is an American poet and professor.
His most recent book is Spot Weather Forecast (Alice James Books, 2021).
His first book, In the Ghost-House Acquainted, won a New England/New York Award from Alice James Books, as well as the 2005 L.L.
Winship/PEN New England Award.
His poems have been published in Ploughshares, Colorado Review, Crazyhorse, Mid-American Review, American Poet Magazine, Cutbank, and other journals.
Raised on the Flathead Indian Reservation in Western Montana, Goodan began working for the U.S.
Forest Service at a young age.
He has lived in Northern Ireland and western Massachusetts.
He received his M.F.A.
degree from the MFA Program for Poets & Writers at the University of Massachusetts Amherst and his B.A.
degree from the University of Montana.
He has taught at the University of Connecticut and as Visiting Writer at Wesleyan University.
He was formerly employed at Lewis-Clark State College, and is currently an adjunct professor at Colby-Sawyer College.


Published works
Full-length Poetry Collections

Spot Weather Forecast (Alice James Books, 2021)
Anaphora (Alice James Books, 2018)
Let the Voices (Red Hen Press, 2016)
Upper Level Disturbances (Colorado State University/Center for Literary Publishing 2012)
Winter Tenor (Alice James Books, 2009)
In the Ghost-House Acquainted (Alice James Books, 2004)
Chapbooks

Thine Embers Fly: Ten Poems (Factory Hollow Press, 2007)


Awards
2005 L.
L.
Winship/PEN New England Award, In the Ghost-House Acquainted
New York/New England Award (Alice James Books)


References


External links
The MFA Program for Poets & Writers at UMASS
Audio: Kevin Goodan Reads His Poems for From the Fishouse
Alice James Books website
Book Review: Bookslut website
Interview: What Is Orphan in Me: An interview with Kevin Goodan by Greogory Lawless > Friday, August 28, 2009
Interview in Rain Taxi Review of Books

Athetis maculatra
Athetis maculatra is a species of moth of the family Noctuidae.
It is found in Australia (New South Wales, the Northern Territory, Queensland and Western Australia).
The wingspan is about 25 mm.
The forewings  are speckled pale brown with a dark brown mark near the middle of the margin.


References

Athelia
Athelia may refer to:

Athelia (disease), a congenital condition in humans where one or both nipples are absent
Athelia (fungus), a genus of basidiomycete fungi in the family Atheliales
not to be confused with Athaliah

Harry Pavel
Harry Pavel (born (1951-03-06)6 March 1951 in Fuchsstadt) is a German wheelchair curler.
He participated in the 2018 Winter Paralympics where German wheelchair curling team finished on eighth place.
In 2015 and 2016 he competed in Swiss Wheelchair Curling Championship, won gold medal both times.


Teams


References


External links
Harry Pavel at World Curling 
Harry Pavel at the International Paralympic Committee
Harry Pavel at Team Deutschland Paralympics (in German)
PyeongChang 2018 Paralympic Winter Games - Wheelchair curling - Round Robin - United States vs Germany on YouTube (video)

Girolamo Candido
Girolamo Candido, O.F.M.
(died 1504) was a Roman Catholic prelate who served as Bishop of Cariati e Cerenzia (1500–1504).


Biography
Girolamo Candido was ordained a priest in the Order of Friars Minor.
On 20 Nov 1500, he was appointed during the papacy of Pope Alexander VI as Bishop of Cariati e Cerenzia.
He served as Bishop of Cariati e Cerenzia until his death on 1504.


See also
Catholic Church in Italy


References


External links and additional sources
Cheney, David M.
"Diocese of Cariati".
Catholic-Hierarchy.org.
Retrieved June 16, 2018.
(for Chronology of Bishops) [self-published]
Chow, Gabriel.
"Diocese of Cariati (Italy)".
GCatholic.org.
Retrieved June 16, 2018.
(for Chronology of Bishops) [self-published]

Canada Permanent Trust Building
The Canada Permanent Trust Building (now known as "The Permanent") is an 18-storey office building located at 320 Bay Street, in downtown Toronto.
It was designed by the architect Henry Sproatt and completed in 1930.
The building was constructed as the headquarters of Canada Permanent.


Heritage information
The building is designated under Part IV of the Ontario Heritage Act since November 26, 1975.
There is also a heritage easement agreement on the building, Registered C440805, since January 7, 1988.
The building has a heritage designation plaque to inform the public, placed in 1978.

Per the official designation: "The Canada Permanent Trust Building, 320 Bay Street at Adelaide Street West (SW), 1929–30 by F.
Hilton Wilkes & Mackenzie Waters; Mathers & Haldenby, Associates.
Sproatt & Rolph, Consultants."
The Canada Permanent Trust Building is designated to be of architectural value as being one of the finest high-rise bank buildings of its period in Canada.
Designed using the simplified classical forms of the Style Moderne, it combines an emphasis on its vertical height appropriate to its basic form, with the impressive vaulted banking hall, characteristic of bank buildings at the beginning of the Century.
The building is also important as a part of the Bay Street canyon of high-rise buildings that has come to be regarded as symbolic of Toronto's financial quarter."


Ownership and renovation
The Canada Permanent Trust building was purchased in January 2019 by Menkes Developments Ltd.
and TD Greystone Asset Management.
It is now known as "The Permanent".
A major restoration of the 270,000 square foot structure began in 2021.
This includes repurposing of the street level of the building, electrical and mechanical upgrades, as well as improving "the quality and service of the space, while preserving its history and architectural elements" including enhancements to the late 1920s façade.


References


External links

Official website
"Canada Permanent Trust Building".
SkyscraperPage.

Miss Cherokee
Miss Cherokee (Cherokee: ᎠᎨᏳᏣ ᏣᎳᎩ, romanized: ageyutsa tsalagi) is an annual cultural leadership title awarded by the Cherokee Nation to a young woman of Cherokee descent.
The role of Miss Cherokee includes acting as an ambassador for the Cherokee Nation, representing the tribe at various cultural, educational, and governmental events.
The Miss Cherokee title is part of a larger effort to promote Cherokee culture, leadership, and community engagement among young tribal members.


Overview
The Miss Cherokee competition is managed by the Cherokee Nation’s Education Services, specifically through its youth leadership programs.
In event promotes Cherokee values and serves as a platform for participants to demonstrate their knowledge of Cherokee history, language, and traditions.
Winners of the Miss Cherokee title have played a role in tribal outreach, particularly in advocating for the revitalization of the Cherokee language and educating the public about Cherokee history.
The Miss Cherokee competition is open to young women who are citizens of the Cherokee Nation and reside within the tribal reservation.
To be eligible, contestants must be high school graduates between the ages of 18 and 22 and must not have previously held the title of Miss Cherokee.
The competition evaluates candidates on their knowledge of Cherokee culture, leadership abilities, public speaking skills, and community involvement.
The titleholder serves a one-year term, during which she represents the Cherokee Nation at various events, including tribal meetings, community functions, and educational engagements.
In addition to serving as a cultural ambassador, Miss Cherokee receives a scholarship to support her academic endeavors.
The 2024 Miss Cherokee received a $6,000 scholarship, with the first and second runners-up receiving $3,000 and $2,000 scholarships, respectively.
Miss Cherokee's duties have historically included visiting important cultural and political sites, such as the White House, the Oklahoma State Capitol, and the National Museum of the American Indian.
The titleholder also participates in Cherokee Nation community meetings across the country, advocating for cultural preservation and leadership.
Alongside Miss Cherokee, the Cherokee Nation also holds competitions for Junior Miss Cherokee and Little Cherokee Ambassadors.
Junior Miss Cherokee, open to middle and high school students between the ages of 13 and 18, focuses on leadership and cultural knowledge among younger Cherokee citizens.
Little Cherokee Ambassadors, open to children aged 4 to 12, are judged in age-appropriate categories and serve as cultural representatives in their communities.


History
The origins of Miss Cherokee can be traced back to 1955, when Phyllis Osage, a student at Sequoyah Vocational School, was crowned as "Queen of the Cornstalk Shoot" during the Cherokee National Holiday.
This early title was a precursor to the formal Miss Cherokee competition that developed in later years.
In 1957, the title was changed to "Miss Cherokee Holiday," with Linda Burrows being the first to hold this new designation.
The official title of "Miss Cherokee" was introduced in 1962, and Ramona Collier became the first to be crowned under this title.
This period marked the beginning of a more formalized role for the titleholder beyond just holiday festivities.
In the early years, Miss Cherokee’s attire was a traditional commercial beaded crown and buckskin dress.
This changed in 1969 when Virginia Stroud introduced the tear dress, turkey feather cape, and copper crown, which became the new standard for the title.
The tear dress, though not a traditional garment from the 1800s, represents a utilitarian style reminiscent of Cherokee working women's attire, according to Cherokee National Treasure Tonia Weavel.
During the 1980s and 1990s, the competition began to incorporate more mainstream pageant elements, including evening wear and business attire.
This shift continued until former Miss Cherokee Nancy Scott (1977 to 1978) became the coordinator of the event in 2000.
Under her leadership, the competition evolved into the Miss Cherokee Leadership Competition, requiring contestants to present a platform addressing issues affecting the Cherokee community.
Platforms have included environmental concerns, education, diabetes awareness, cultural preservation, language preservation, and women's empowerment.
The competition has also undergone changes in eligibility requirements and event formats.
Former Miss Cherokee Janelle Adair (1999 to 2000) noted that the blood quantum rule, requiring contestants to be at least one-fourth Cherokee, was in place during her tenure.
She also mentioned the removal of the Lord’s Prayer in sign language and the evening wear category.
Additionally, the rise of social media has introduced new challenges for contemporary contestants.


Crown
The Miss Cherokee crown has undergone numerous transformations, reflecting both cultural symbolism and the evolving artistry of Cherokee craftsmen.
Initially, the crown was a simple leather strap adorned with a feather.
However, by the 1960s, the design evolved into a fully beaded crown.
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, Cherokee artist Willard Stone handcrafted a copper crown, which included seven turkey feathers symbolizing the seven Cherokee clans.
The crown’s centerpiece was inscribed with the Cherokee seal and star, representing the unity and cultural heritage of the Cherokee Nation.
Turkey footprints were incorporated into the sides of the crown, symbolizing young Cherokee maidens striving toward the "golden Cherokee hills" in their pursuit of the Miss Cherokee title.
In 1992, the crown was redesigned by Cherokee artist Bill Glass Sr., who added a pearl shell Cherokee star to the front of the crown, while maintaining the presence of feathers.
That same year, Glass’s daughter, Geri Gayle Glass, won the Miss Cherokee title and wore the newly updated crown.
In 2003, Cherokee artist Demos Glass, the grandson of Bill Glass Sr., created two new crowns.
The first, used until 2013, incorporated sterling silver and pink mussel shell along with copper.
Demos sought to maintain elements of Stone's original design while introducing his own artistic touches.
His second crown, still in use today, is made entirely of copper and features taller, curved feathers to give the crown a distinct "southeast feel." Both crowns feature seven feathers and the Cherokee star, maintaining continuity with past designs while reflecting the evolving artistry of Cherokee metalsmiths.


List of winners


References

Thomas Shelford
Thomas Shelford (23 November 1839 - 12 January 1900) was a merchant and a member of the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements and the Municipal Commission of Singapore.


Early life
Shelford was born in Cosford, West Suffolk on 23 November 1839.


Career
He came to Singapore in 1863 or 1864 due to his poor health.
He was then employed at Paterson, Simons & Co.
as a junior assistant, and eventually became a partner of the firm.
In 1867, he became a member of the Board of Trustees of  Raffles Institution.
In June 1872, he was made an unofficial member of the Legislative Council of Singapore, and served on the council for around 25 years.
In 1887, Shelford, Charles Burton Buckley and John Cuthbertson contributed funds to convert The Singapore Free Press from a weekly publication to a daily publication.
He was a member of the Municipal Commission of Singapore, and retired from the commission in December 1893.
In 1892, he was conferred the Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George.
In 1895, he was nominated a Municipal Commission of Singapore representing Rochor Ward.
He was also on the board of trustees of the Raffles Library and Museum.


Personal life and death
Shelford married twice and had several children, including Robert Shelford, William Heard Shelford and Thomas L.
Shelford.
In 1897, he and his family returned to England as his second wife and his children could not adapt to life in Singapore.
He died of Influenza at his residence in Guildford on 12 January 1900.
A full-length portrait of him was unveiled at Singapore City Hall on 10 June 1901.
Shelford Road was named after him in 1941.


References

Flight 214
Flight 214 may refer to:
Listed chronologically

Aeroflot Flight 214, a Ilyushin Il-14 that crashed on 6 August 1955 in Russia
Pan Am Flight 214, a Boeing 707-121 that crashed on 8 December 1963 in Maryland, U.S.
Asiana Airlines Flight 214, a Boeing 777-200ER that crash-landed on 6 July 2013 in California, U.S.


See also
All pages with titles containing Flight 214

U.S. Route 10 Alternate
U.S.
Route 10 Alternate may refer to:

U.S.
Route 10 Alternate (Seattle, Washington), a former designation for a part of state highway Washington State Route 900
U.S.
Route 10 Alternate (Washington–Montana), a former U.S.
Route that ran from Seattle to Montana
U.S.
Route 10 Alternate (Drummond–Anaconda, Montana), a former designation of state highway Montana Highway 1

Victor Louis
Victor Louis (French pronunciation: [viktɔʁ lwi]; 10 May 1731, Paris – 2 July 1800, Paris) was a French architect, disqualified on a technicality from winning the Prix de Rome in architecture in 1755.


Life
He was born Louis-Nicolas Louis in Paris.
He did not adopt the name Victor until after he returned from a trip to Poland in 1765.
In 1770 he married the pianist and composer Marie-Emmanuelle Bayon.
They had a daughter, Marie-Hélène-Victoire, in 1774.
A full biography of Victor Louis was published by Charles Marionneau in Bordeaux in 1881.


Work
Louis' masterpiece is the Grand Théâtre de Bordeaux of 1780.
He also designed other theatres, including  the Salle Richelieu on the rue de Richelieu (1790, later to become the home of the Comédie-Française) and the Théâtre National de la rue de la Loi (1793, demolished).
The Salle Richelieu was the first major building with a roof structure of iron which was selected for its fire-resistant qualities when compared with wood.
Other buildings include the Intendance in Besançon (completed 1776), the garden galleries of the Palais-Royal in Paris (1781–1784), the Salle de Beaujolais (1782–83), and the Château du Bouilh near Bordeaux (1786–1789, unfinished).


Gallery


Notes


Bibliography
Ayers, Andrew (2004).
The Architecture of Paris.
Stuttgart; London: Edition Axel Menges.
ISBN 9783930698967.
Braham, Allan (1980).
The Architecture of the French Enlightenment.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
ISBN 9780520067394.
Croizier, Laurent; Bourrousse, Luc (2011).
The Grand-Théâtre of Bordeaux.
Bordeaux: Festin.
ISBN 9782360620401.
Fletcher, Banister (1961).
A History of Architecture on the Comparative Method, 17th edition, edited by R.
A.
Cordingley.
London: The Athlone Press.
OCLC 561038671.
1963 reprint: OCLC 859646659.
Copy at Internet Archive.
John, Richard (1998).
"Louis, Victor [Louis-Nicolas]" in Turner 1998, vol.
19, pp.
725–726.
Lacouture, Jean (1994).
Le Grand-Théâtre de Bordeaux, ou L’Opéra des Vendanges, photographs by Dominique Thillard.
Paris: Caisse nationale des monuments historiques et des sites.
ISBN 9782858221257.
Marionneau, Charles (1881).
Victor Louis, Architecte du Théâtre de Bordeaux: Sa vie, ses travaux et sa correspondance 1731–1800.
Bordeaux: G.
Gounouilhou View at Google Books..
Prudent, Henri; Guadet, Paul (1903).
Les salles de spectacle construites par Victor Louis à Bordeaux, au Palais-Royal et à la place Louvois.
Paris: Librairie de la construction moderne.
OCLC 7065687.
Turner, Jane, editor (1998).
The Dictionary of Art, reprinted with minor corrections, 34 volumes.
New York: Grove.
ISBN 9781884446009.

Álvaro de Bazán, Marquis of Santa Cruz
Álvaro de Bazán y Guzmán, 1st Marquis of Santa Cruz (12 December 1526 – 9 February 1588), was a Spanish admiral and nobleman.
He took part, among others, in the seizure of the rock of Vélez de la Gomera (1564), the relief to the besieged during the sieges of Oran (1563) and Malta (1565), the Battle of Lepanto (1571), the conquest of Tunis (1573), the incorporation of Portugal to the Spanish monarchy (1580), and the conquest of Terceira (1582).
A leading admiral in both the Mediterranean and the Atlantic, like his father before him, Bazán has been considered the prime naval commander in the history of Spain.
He made developments in amphibious warfare and pioneered the strategic usage of several kinds of ships, refining the design of existent vessels and popularising galleons as warships, ultimately making possible many of the successes of the Spanish Empire since the 16th and 17th centuries.
For his leadership and influence, Bazán was celebrated by Miguel de Cervantes as el Padre de los Soldados ("the Father of the Soldiers").
He was reputed to have never lost a battle under his command, a remarkable achievement in a fifty-year-long military career.
He was a grandee of Spain and a patron of the arts.
He built the Palace of the Marquis of Santa Cruz in Viso, Spain, which currently houses the General Archive of the Spanish Navy.


Biography
Álvaro de Bazán y Guzmán was born in Granada on 12 December 1526, son to Álvaro de Bazán y Solís "the Elder" and Ana de Guzmán.
Just like his father and grandfather, he was a member of the Order of Santiago, having joined the order as a knight when he was a toddler, in 1529.
Under the purview of his relationship with the order, he was granted encomiendas in Villamayor (1568) and in Alhambra and La Solana (1572).
His grandfather, Álvaro de Bazán, took part in the conquest of Granada in 1492.
Bazán's father took part together with Giovanni Andrea Doria and others marines in the recapture of Tunis in 1535, and was distinguished in the service of Charles V, by whom he was made general of the galleys, or commander-in-chief of the Spanish naval forces in the Mediterranean.
The future admiral followed his father into the navy in his youth and was employed in the high command of the Spanish officers at a very early age.
At the age of eight, he was appointed "Military Governor and captain of the fortress and city of Gibraltar".
His 'command' was via his father, who was in command of the galleys of Spain.
It has been speculated that this unusual appointment was intended to show Charles V's confidence, but the commander of the galleys did not share that confidence.
Bazán the Elder suggested to no effect that Gibraltar's Line Wall Curtain be extended to the southern tip of the rock.
In 1564, he aided in the capture of Peñón de Vélez de la Gomera and, the following year, he commanded the division of galleys employed to blockade Tetuan and to suppress the piracy carried on from that port.
The service is said to have been successfully performed.
The younger Bazán had a first showing serving under Sancho Martínez de Leyva during his failed expedition to the Peñón de Vélez de la Gomera.
Bazán advised Leyva for a course of action that went unheeded, leading to a fiasco, during which Bazán was still instrumental in covering the Spanish retreat from his ships.
He later defeated an English pirate fleet in Gibraltar.
Bazán participated again in the next expedition to Vélez de la Gomera, leading to its final conquest.
Actions like this earned the confidence of Philip II, by whom he was appointed in 1568 to command the galleys of Naples.
This post brought him into close relations with John of Austria, when the Holy League was formed against the Turks in 1570.
He was given the title of Marquis of Santa Cruz in 1569, in light of his role in the suffocation of the Morisco Revolt and previous services.
The title was named after Santa Cruz de Mudela, acquired from the Crown by his father back in 1539.

During the operations which preceded and followed the Battle of Lepanto (7 October 1571), Bazán was always in favour of the more energetic course.
His personal galley was known as La Loba ('The She-Wolf'), after her golden figurehead.
In the battle, he commanded the reserve division, and his prompt energy averted a disaster when Uluj Ali, who commanded the left wing of the Turks, outmaneuvered the commander of the Christian right, Gian Andrea Doria, the nephew of his old comrade Andrea Doria, and broke the Allied line.
He later accompanied Don John of Austria at the taking of Tunis in the following year.
When Philip II enforced his claim as heir to the crown of Portugal in 1580–1581, Santa Cruz held a naval command but António, Prior of Crato, an illegitimate representative of the former Portuguese royal family, who conducted some popular resistance to the crowning of what was seen as a foreign king, continued to hold the islands of the Azores.
António was supported by a number of French adventurers under Philip Strozzi, a Florentine exile in the service of France.
Santa Cruz was sent as "Admiral of the Ocean" to drive the pretender and his friends away in 1582.
Badly outnumbered, he won the Battle of Ponta Delgada off Terceira Island against a loose confederation of Portuguese, French, English and Dutch adventurers and privateers, which decided the struggle for the Azores in favour of the Spanish Habsburgs.
Santa Cruz, who recognised that England presented a grave threat to Spain's empire, became a zealous advocate of war.
A letter written by him to King Philip from Angra do Heroísmo in Terceira, on 9 August 1583, contains the first definite suggestion of the Spanish Armada.
His proposed plan included striking first in Ireland and mounting a local rebellion, in a way that would divert the English forces, before heading for the channel to start the main invasion of England.
Santa Cruz was to have commanded the fleet.
His plans, schemes and estimates occupy a conspicuous place in the documents concerning the Armada collected by Cesáreo Fernández Duro.
The hesitant character of the king, and his many embarrassments, political and financial, caused many delays and left Santa Cruz unable to take action.
He was at Lisbon without the means to fit out his fleet, when Francis Drake burnt the Spanish ships at Cádiz during his 1587 expedition.
The king was offended by Santa Cruz's independence of judgement, and he held the admiral responsible for the failures and delays, although these are better attributed to the Crown.
Santa Cruz died on 9 February 1588 at Lisbon, reportedly in part because of the unjustified reproaches of the king.
The great galleons employed to carry the trade between Cádiz and Vera Cruz in New Spain were the joint creation of Santa Cruz and Pedro Menéndez de Avilés.


Legacy and popular culture

The documents relating to the Spanish Armada have been collected by Cesáreo Fernández Duro in La Armada Invencible (1895–1903), and he gives a biography of the Santa Cruz in his Conquista de las Islas Azores.
A separate life has been published by Don Ángel de Altolaguirre.
There are various notices of Santa Cruz in Sir W.
Stirling Maxwell's Don John of Austria.
Several ships of the Spanish Navy were named Álvaro de Bazán in his honour.
Currently, a class of frigates is in service with the Spanish Navy, and the lead ship is named Álvaro de Bazán (F101).
He was depicted on the 1953 one-peseta banknote.
In the Chapter XXXIX of Don Quixote, Cervantes says:
Tomóla la capitana de Nápoles, llamada La Loba, regida por aquel rayo de la guerra, por el padre de los soldados, por aquel venturoso y jamás vencido capitán don Álvaro de Bazán, marqués de Santa Cruz.
("She was taken by the Captain of the Naples-galleys, called La Loba (The She-Wolf), commanded by that lightning of war, by the father of soldiers, for that fortunate and never defeated captain, Don Álvaro de Bazán, marquess of Santa Cruz.")
In the episode "The Enterprise of England" in the 1971 BBC series Elizabeth R, he is portrayed by Geoffrey Wincott in a historically accurate script, in which King Philip's meddling clearly dooms his plans and exacerbates his declining health.


References

Attribution:

This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Hannay, David (1911).
"Santa Cruz, Álvaro de Bazan, 1st Marquis of".
In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.).
Encyclopædia Britannica.
Vol.
24 (11th ed.).
Cambridge University Press.
p.
185.
Fernández Izquierdo, Francisco (2018).
"Almirantes en la mar y señores de tierra.
La administración del marquesado de Santa Cruz en el tránsito del siglo XVI al XVII" (PDF).
Monarquías en conflicto.
Linajes y noblezas en la articulación de la Monarquía hispánica.
Fundación Española de Historia Moderna; Universidad de Cantabria.
pp.
1091–1092.
ISBN 978-84-949424-2-6.
Rodríguez González, Agustín (2017).
Álvaro de Bazán, Capitán general del Mar Océano.
EDAF.
ISBN 978-8441437791.
Hernández-Palacios, Martín (2023).
Álvaro de Bazán, el mejor marino de Felipe II.
Rialp.
ISBN 978-8432165191.


External links

Jack Lehane
John Lehane (1884 - 18 August 1938) was an Irish Gaelic footballer who played as a forward for the Cork senior team.
Kelleher made his first appearance for the team during the 1907 championship and was a regular member of the starting fifteen for a number of seasons.
During that time he won one All-Ireland medal and two Munster medals.
At club level Lehane was a multiple county championship medalist with Macroom.


References

Bassey
Bassey is both a surname and a given name.
Notable people with the name include:

Aniekan Bassey, Nigerian businessman and politician
Anthony Bassey (born 1994), Nigerian footballer
Beebee Bassey (born 1993), Nigerian musician
Calvin Bassey, (born 1999), Nigerian footballer
Charles Bassey (born 2000), Nigerian basketball player
Ebbe Bassey, Nigerian-American actress
Effiom Otu Bassey (born 1992), Nigerian footballer
Ekemini Bassey (born 1987), Austrian bobsledder
Eric Bassey (born 1983), American football player
Essang Bassey (born 1998), American football player
Ezekiel Bassey (born 1996), Nigerian footballer
Felicia Bassey, Nigerian politician
Fortune Bassey (born 1998), Nigerian footballer
Gershom Bassey (born 1962), Nigerian businessman and politician
Hogan Bassey (1932–1998), Nigerian boxer
Ironbar Bassey (born 1965), Nigerian weightlifter
Jennifer Bassey (born 1942), American actress
Mark Bassey (born 1961), British musician, composer and educator
Michael Bassey (born 1987), Nigerian footballer
Nathaniel Bassey (born 1981), Nigerian singer, songwriter and pastor
Nonso Bassey, Nigerian singer, songwriter, actor and model
Nnimmo Bassey (born 1958), Nigerian architect, activist and writer
Otuekong Raphael Bassey (died 2025), Nigerian politician
Patrick Bassey (1957–2020), Nigerian weightlifter
Paul Bassey (born 1958), Nigerian journalist and sports administrator
Samuel Bassey, Nigerian trade unionist and activist
Shirley Bassey (born 1937), Welsh singer
Simon Bassey (born 1976), English footballer and manager
Sonia Bassey (born 1965), British artist and community organiser
Bassey Ekpo Bassey (born 1949), Nigerian journalist and politician
Bassey Akiba (born 1969), Nigerian politician
Bassey Akpan (born 1984), Nigerian footballer
Bassey Asuquo, Nigerian military general and politician
Bassey Albert Akpan (born 1972), Nigerian politician
Bassey Dan-Abia (born 1957), Nigerian politician
Bassey Etim, Nigerian politician
Bassey Ewa-Henshaw (born 1943), Nigerian politician
Bassey Eyo Ephraim Adam III (1904–1986), Nigerian nobleman and Obong of Calabar
Bassey Ikpi (born 1976), Nigerian-American poet, writer and mental health advocate
Bassey Otu (born 1959), Nigerian politician


See also
Count Basie (1904–1984), American musician

Nationalist Left of the Balearic Islands Federation
The Nationalist Left of the Balearic Islands Federation (Catalan: Federació de l'Esquerra Nacionalista de les Illes Balears, Spanish: Federación de la Izquierda Nacionalista de las Islas Baleares, FENIB), also known as Nationalist Left Federation, was formed in 1989 by the Socialist Party of Majorca, Socialist Party of Menorca and Entesa Nacionalista i Ecologista (English: Nationalist and Ecologist Agreement).
In 1998 it was transformed into the PSM–Nationalist Agreement party federation.


References

Yuya Kuriyama
Yuya Kuriyama (栗山優也, Kuriyama Yūya; born 29 March 2000) is a Japanese professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for Yarmanya United.


Youth career
Kuriyama was born in Tokyo and started playing football at a very young age.
In his childhood, he played for a youth team named FC Proud while playing for Sundai Gakuen High School.
Up until 2022, he also played college football for the team of Shizuoka Sangyo University.
While he was playing, he was diagnosed with cataracts and had to get surgery to remove them.


Club career


APF Club
With help from the non-profit organization Reale World, Kuriyama was able to play abroad in 2021 during his last year of college, where he signed for Nepal's APF Club.
In doing so, he became the first-ever foreign player to play for a Departmental team in the Nepal Super League.
At the end of the season, he won the Golden Glove Award at the Aaha!
Gold Cup in 2022 after making a vital penalty save during the shootout that handed AFP the title.
He signed on for another season from 2022 to 2023.


Thimphu City
In 2023, he moved from Nepal to nearby Bhutan where he played for league heavyweights Thimphu City FC of the Bhutan Premier League.
At the season's end, though Thimphu didn't win the league, Kuriyama won the Golden Glove award.
He left the team at the end of the season to pursue a career elsewhere.


Manila Digger
Kuriyama moved to the Philippines in early 2024 to play for Manila Digger, a club that was joining the Philippines Football League for the 2024 season.
Kuriyama made his debut on the opening matchday at Digger narrowly scraped through against Philippine Army, 3–2.
He would go on to be the club's starting keeper during the brief spell.


References


External links
Yuya Kuriyama at Soccerway

John Henry Young
John Henry  Young (27 October 1880 – 7 September 1946) was an Australian art collector, art dealer and art gallery director.
Young was born in Petersham, Sydney, New South Wales and died in North Sydney, New South Wales.
He is noted for serving as acting director of the Art Gallery of New South Wales 1944–1945 between the incumbencies of Will Ashton and Hal Missingham.


See also

Sir Carleton Kemp Allen
Sydney George Ure Smith
Roland Shakespeare Wakelin
Percy Alexander Leason
Roy De Maistre
Basil Burdett
Sir William Dobell
Robert Richmond Campbell


References

Kazan (1921 film)
Kazan is a 1921 American silent Western film.
Now lost, it was directed by Bertram Bracken and starring Jane Novak and Ben Deeley.
It was produced by William N.
Selig and distributed independently.
The picture was based upon a novel by James Oliver Curwood.
In 1949 it was remade as a sound film of the same title.


Plot


Cast
Jane Novak as Joan Radison
Ben Deeley as Jim Thorpe
William Ryno as Pierre Radisson
Ben Hagerty as Frank Radisson
Edwin Wallock as Black McCready


References


External links

Kazan at IMDb

Ambition North Wales
Ambition North Wales (Welsh: Uchelgais Gogledd Cymru) is a joint committee and decision-making body overseeing the North Wales Growth Deal (Welsh: Bargen Twf Gogledd Cymru or Bargen Twf y Gogledd), a regional economic growth deal covering the North Wales region.
It is a partnership between the six local authorities of Conwy County Borough, Denbighshire, Flintshire, Gwynedd, Isle of Anglesey, and Wrexham County Borough, and other local partners in the region, including Bangor University, Wrexham University, Grŵp Llandrillo Menai, Coleg Cambria, and various private sector representatives.
The North Wales Growth Deal was signed on 17 December 2020, spanning 15 years.
Unlike the city regions in South Wales, North Wales lacks a definitive main economic and urban centre, with settlements such as Bangor, Llandudno, Deeside, Holyhead and Wrexham all having roles in the regional economy.
The deal involves £240 million committed by the UK and Welsh Governments (£120 million each), with the remaining £906 million from other partners in the public and private sector, totalling the deal to be worth £1.1 billion.
This funding was committed on 4 November 2019, with the deal itself signed on 17 December 2020.


Governance
Ambition North Wales is the sponsoring group and the decision-making local government body for the North Wales Growth Deal.
Ambition North Wales considers and approves project business cases, and is responsible for the delivery of growth deal programmes and project boards, in line with the deal's aims and objectives.
The board also was responsible for securing government funding for the growth deal during its bidding process.
The board's Portfolio Management Office (PMO) is based in the Conwy Business Centre, in Llandudno Junction, Conwy County Borough.
Ambition North Wales is composed of the six principal council leaders and chief executives, representatives from two further and two higher education (university) institutions and the Business Delivery Board, representing the private sector.
Meetings of the board take place monthly.
Gwynedd Council is the host authority, responsible for holding the meetings, and managing financial statements for the board.
Councillor Dyfrig Siencyn, leader of Gwynedd Council is the Chair of the board, and Councillor Mark Pritchard, leader of Wrexham County Borough Council as Vice-chair.
Voting rights of the board are only reserved for council leaders.
An Executive Support Group (or Portfolio Board) was established to act as an advisory body to the board and is composed of senior officers of the partner organisations in the partnership to assist in the development and delivery of the deal's various projects.
In December 2021, it was agreed that the functions of Ambition North Wales, which were at the time carried out by joint committee known as the North Wales Economic Ambition Board, would be absorbed into the newly formed North Wales Corporate Joint Committee, with a subcommittee being formed to carry out the statutory functions of an Economic Ambition Board.


History
Ambition North Wales published the "Growth Vision for the Economy of North Wales" in September 2016, setting out the regional plan for improving infrastructure, skills, employment, business growth and innovation.
The vision was subsequently adopted by all six councils of the committee.
In the March 2017 UK budget, the UK Government announced it was looking forward to proposals for a North Wales Growth Deal.
In November 2018, in the 2018 Autumn Budget, UK Chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, announced the UK Government's commitment of £120 million towards a North Wales Growth Deal.
In December 2018, Ken Skates confirmed that the Welsh Government would match the UK Government funding, and also offered to match any additional funding support which the UK Government might make available.
In November 2019, the Heads of Terms Agreement for the North Wales Growth Deal was signed by the representatives of the North Wales Economic Ambition Board, Secretary of State for Wales, Alun Cairns, and Eluned Morgan, Baroness Morgan of Ely on behalf of Welsh Government.
The deal was signed on 17 December 2020.


Growth deal

The North Wales Growth Deal (Welsh: Bargen Twf Gogledd Cymru or Bargen Twf y Gogledd) involves £240 million committed by the UK and Welsh Governments (£120 million each), with the remaining funding provided from other partners in the public (£184.3 million) and private sectors (£722.1 million), totalling the deal to be worth £1.1 billion over 15 years.
The partnership describes the aims of the deal to be; building a more vibrant, sustainable and resilient economy, boosting productivity and other strengths to tackle long-term issues, and to promote scalable, inclusive and sustainable economic growth.
Its objectives were set by the board to be: creating 3,400 - 4,200 jobs and generating between £2 billion and £2.5 billion in additional Gross value added (GVA) by 2036.
The deal is organised into five programmes, focusing on a particular sector of the North Wales economy, the programmes being;

Low Carbon Energy
Digital
Agrifood & Tourism
Innovation in High-Value Manufacturing
Land & Property


Post-signing projects
The first project under the growth deal to be approved was the £3 million investment into new equipment in the Digital Signal Processing Centre (DSP) at Bangor University, and the first project to commence was the £35 million Morlais renewable energy scheme.
In June 2025, it was reported that the deal was connected to only creating "35 jobs", compared to its target of 4,200 jobs.


Partners and associated bodies
The partnership is composed of the following members:

A Portfolio Management Office was established by the partnership to initially develop and deliver the Growth Vision plan and later the Growth Deal plan.
Following the growth deal's signing, its present role is to support the delivery of the aims set in the growth deal, by identifying gaps in the skills, knowledge or capacity of the local workforce.
Outside the growth deal, the partnership works with two other advisory bodies:

North Wales Regional Skills Partnership — oversees a Skills and Employment Programme in North Wales to develop the skill base of the region to be more dynamic and agile, and to close the skills gap, by matching the skills required by employers to be developed in the workforce.

Business Delivery Board — represents employers and the business sector in the region
Sub-boards:

Transport Sub-board — established by the partnership to support transport investment initiatives in the region, the sub-board co-operates with Transport for Wales and the Welsh Government in their North Wales Metro project.
Two principal councils, Flintshire and Wrexham, are part of the Mersey Dee Alliance, which the board also works with.


See also
North Wales
Growth deal
Regional economy in Wales
North Wales Corporate Joint Committee


References


External links
Ambition North Wales website

Rebecca Ohm
Rebecca Ohm is a United States Air Force officer and the first female fighter pilot at the 180th Fighter Wing and within the state of Ohio selected to fly a General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon.
Her aviator call sign is "Buffy".
Ohm is Commander of the 180th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron, 180th Fighter Wing, Toledo Air National Guard Base, Swanton, Ohio.


Career
Ohm began her career at the 180th Fighter Wing in January 1993 where she was assigned to the Aircraft Maintenance Squadron as a flight line crew chief.
In 1994, she was selected for a pilot slot at the 180th Fighter Wing, becoming the first female fighter pilot at the 180th Fighter Wing and within the state of Ohio.
Ohm has been on several combat deployments and received the Air Medal in support of Operation Northern Watch, Operation Southern Watch, and Operation Iraqi Freedom.
Ohm was the first female fighter pilot within the state of Ohio to become an F-16 instructor pilot.

She was interviewed in Air Force TV News on 2015 women's history month.


References

1837
1837 (MDCCCXXXVII) was a common year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar, the 1837th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 837th  year of the 2nd millennium, the 37th  year of the 19th century, and the  8th   year of the 1830s decade.
As of the start of 1837, the Gregorian calendar was 12 days ahead of the Julian calendar, which remained in localized use until 1923.
 


Events


January–March
January 1 – The destructive Galilee earthquake causes thousands of deaths in Ottoman Syria.
January 26 – Michigan becomes the 26th state admitted to the United States.
February 4 – Seminoles attack Fort Foster in Florida.
February 25 – In Philadelphia, the Institute for Colored Youth (ICY) is founded, as the first institution for the higher education of black people in the United States.
February – Charles Dickens's Oliver Twist begins publication in serial form in London.
March 1 – The Congregation of Holy Cross is formed in Le Mans, France, by the signing of the Fundamental Act of Union, which legally joins the Auxiliary Priests of Blessed Basil Moreau, CSC, and the Brothers of St.
Joseph (founded by Jacques-François Dujarié) into one religious association.


April–June
April 12 – The conglomerate of Procter & Gamble has its origins, when British-born businessmen William Procter and James Gamble begin selling their first manufactured goods (soap and candles) in Cincinnati, Ohio.
April 24 – The great fire in Surat, a city of India, begins.
Over a three-day period, the fire kills more than 500 people and destroys more than 9,000 houses.
May 10 – The Panic of 1837 begins in New York City.
May – W.
F.
Cooke and Charles Wheatstone patent an  electrical telegraph system.
June 5 – The city of Houston is incorporated by the Republic of Texas.
June 11 – The Broad Street Riot occurs in Boston, Massachusetts, fueled by ethnic tensions between the Irish and the Yankees.
June 20 – Queen Victoria, 18, accedes to the throne of the United Kingdom, on the death of her uncle William IV without legitimate heirs (she will reign for more than 63 years).
Under Salic law, the Kingdom of Hanover passes to William's brother, Ernest Augustus, Duke of Cumberland, ending the personal union of Britain and Hanover which has persisted since 1714.


July–September
July 13 – Queen Victoria moves from Kensington Palace into Buckingham Palace, the first reigning British monarch to make this, rather than St James's Palace, as her London home.
July – Charles W.
King sets sail on the American merchant ship Morrison.
In the Morrison incident, he is turned away from Japanese ports with cannon fire.
August 16 – The Dutch colonial forces sack the fortress of Bonjol, Indonesia, ending the Padri War.
September 19 – First Carlist War: Battle of Aranzueque – The liberal forces loyal to Queen Isabel II of Spain are victorious, ending the Carlist campaign known as the Expedición Real.
September 26 – The destructive "Racer's hurricane" sweeps across the Caribbean, northeastern Mexico, the Republic of Texas and the Gulf Coast of the United States and lasts until October 9, after killing at least 105 people.
September 28 – Samuel Morse files a caveat for a patent for the telegraph.


October–December
October 13 – The French army under Sylvain Charles Valée captures the city of  Constantine in French Algeria after a siege of three days.
October 30 – The Tsarskoye Selo Railway, the first in the Russian Empire, opens between Saint Petersburg Tsarskoselsky station and Zarskoje Selo (modern-day Pushkin), engineered by Franz Anton von Gerstner.
October 31 – In what will become the world's leading consumer goods brand, Procter & Gamble is founded in Ohio in the United States.
November 6 Louis-Joseph Papineau begins the Lower Canada Rebellion in the Quebec city of Montreal.
November 7 – American abolitionist and newspaper editor Elijah Lovejoy is killed by a pro-slavery mob, at his warehouse in Alton, Illinois.
November 8 – Mount Holyoke Female Seminary, later Mount Holyoke College, is founded in South Hadley, Massachusetts.
November 17 – An earthquake in Valdivia, south-central Chile, causes tsunamis that led to significant destruction along Japan's coast.
December 4 – Samuel Lount begins the Upper Canada Rebellion by marching with rebel followers to Toronto, one month after a similar rebellion against British rule had begun in Lower Canada.
December 17 – Fire breaks out in the Winter Palace, in Saint Petersburg, Russia killing 30 guards.
December 23 – The Slave Compensation Act is signed into law by the government of the United Kingdom.
This pays a substantial amount of money, constituting 40% of the Treasury’s tax receipts at the time, to former enslavers but nothing to those formerly enslaved.
December 29 – The Caroline Affair, on the Niagara River, becomes the basis for the Caroline test for anticipatory self-defence in international relations.


Date unknown

Louis Daguerre develops the daguerreotype.
The 5th century B.C.
Berlin Foundry Cup is acquired for the Antikensammlung Berlin in Germany.
The Olney Friends School is founded in the Appalachian Mountains of the United States.
The first electric locomotive built is a miniature battery locomotive constructed by chemist Robert Davidson of Aberdeen in Scotland, and  powered by galvanic cells (batteries).
Atlanta is fixed as the terminal of the Western and Atlantic Railroad; it is originally named Marthasville.


Births


January–June

January 2 – Mily Balakirev, Russian composer (d.
1910)
January 7 – Thomas Henry Ismay, English shipowner (White Star Line) (d.
1899)
February 5
Dwight L.
Moody, American evangelist (d.
1899)
Edward Miner Gallaudet, American educator of the deaf (d.
1917)
February 13 – Valentin Zubiaurre, Spanish composer (d.
1914)
February 20 – Samuel Swett Green, American librarian, advocate (d.
1918)
February 24 – Nakamuta Kuranosuke, Japanese admiral (d.
1916)
March 1 – William Dean Howells, American writer, historian, editor, and politician (d.
1920)
March 3 – Jacques Duchesne, French general (d.
1918)
March 7 – Henry Draper, American physician and astronomer (d.
1882)
March 18 – Grover Cleveland, 22nd and 24th President of the United States (d.
1908)
March 22 – Virginia Oldoini, Countess of Castiglione (d.
1899)
March 23 – Sir Charles Wyndham, English actor, theatrical manager (d.
1919)
March 27 – Kate Fox, American medium (d.
1892)
April 1 – Luis Francisco Benítez de Lugo y Benítez de Lugo (d.
1876)
April 5 – Algernon Charles Swinburne, English poet (d.
1909)
April 17 – J.
P.
Morgan, American financier, banker (d.
1913)
April 21 – Fredrik Bajer, Danish politician, pacifist, recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize (d.
1922)
April 27 – Queen Cheorin, Korean queen (d.
1878)
April 29 – Georges Ernest Boulanger, French general, politician (d.
1891)
May 5
Anna Maria Mozzoni, Italian feminist, founder of the Italian women's movement (d.
1920)
Theodor Rosetti, 16th Prime Minister of Romania (d.
1923)
May 7 – Karl Mauch, German explorer (d.
1875)
May 9
Adam Opel, German engineer, industrialist (d.
1895)
Ben Hall, Australian bushranger (d.
1865)
May 27 – Wild Bill Hickok, American gunfighter (d.
1876)
May 28
George Ashlin, Irish architect (d.
1921)
Tony Pastor, American impresario, theater owner (d.
1908)
June 22
Paul Bachmann, German mathematician (d.
1920)
Paul Morphy, American chess player (d.
1884)
Touch the Clouds, Native American Miniconjou chief (d.
1905)
June 28 – Petre P.
Carp, 2-time prime minister of Romania (d.
1919)


July–December

July 4 – Carolus-Duran, French painter (d.
1917)
July 15 – Stephanie of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen, Queen consort of Portugal (d.
1859)
July 18 – Vasil Levski, Bulgarian revolutionary (d.
1873)
July 21 – Johanna Hedén, Swedish midwife, surgeon (d.
1912)
August 1 – (bapt.) Mary Harris Jones ("Mother Jones"), Irish-American labor leader (d.
1930)
August 5 – Anna Filosofova, Russian women's rights activist (d.
1912)
August 11 – John Ward, English palaeontologist (d.
1906)
August 24 – Théodore Dubois, French composer (d.
1924)
September 2 – James H.
Wilson, Union Army major general in the American Civil War (d.
1925)
September 12 – Louis IV, Grand Duke of Hesse (d.
1892)
September 14 – Nikolai Bugaev, Russian mathematician (d.1903)
September 16 – King Pedro V of Portugal (d.
1861)
September 18 – Aires de Ornelas e Vasconcelos, Portuguese Archbishop of Goa (d.
1880)
September 24 – Mark Hanna, United States Senator from Ohio (d.
1904)
October 3 – Nicolás Avellaneda, Argentine president (d.
1885)
October 4 – Auguste-Réal Angers, Canadian judge and politician, 6th Lieutenant Governor of Quebec (d.
1919)
October 5 – José Plácido Caamaño, 12th President of Ecuador (d.
1900)
October 10 – Robert Gould Shaw, Union Army general in the American Civil War, social reformer (k.
1863)
October 26 – Carl Koldewey, German explorer famous for the German North Polar Expedition (d.
1908)
October 28 – Tokugawa Yoshinobu, Japanese shōgun, 15th and last of the Tokugawa shogunate (d.
1913)
October 29 – Harriet Powers, African-American folk artist  (d.
1910)
November 2 – Émile Bayard, French artist, illustrator (d.
1891)
November 5 – Arnold Janssen, German-born Catholic priest, saint (d.
1909)
November 20 – Lewis Waterman, American inventor, businessman (d.1901)
November 23 – Johannes Diderik van der Waals, Dutch physicist, Nobel Prize laureate (d.
1923)
December (unknown date) – Bella French Swisher, American writer (d.
1893)
December 9 – Kabayama Sukenori, Japanese samurai, general, and statesman (d.
1922)
December 11 – Webster Paulson, English civil engineer (d.
1887)
December 15 – George B.
Post, American architect (d.
1913)
December 24
Empress Elisabeth of Austria, wife of Emperor Franz Joseph I (d.
1898)
Cosima Wagner, wife of German composer Richard Wagner (d.
1930)
December 26
Sir William Dawkins, British geologist (d.
1929)
George Dewey, American admiral (d.
1917)


Deaths


January–June

January 8 – Duke Wilhelm in Bavaria, Great-grandfather of Empress Elisabeth of Austria (b.
1752)
January 20 – John Soane, British architect (b.
1753)
January 23 – John Field, Irish composer (b.
1782)
February 7 – Gustav IV Adolf, ex-King of Sweden (b.
1778)
February 10 – Alexander Pushkin, Russian author (b.
1799)
February 13 – Mariano José de Larra, Spanish author (b.
1809)
February 19 – Georg Büchner, German playwright (b.
1813)
March 31 – John Constable, English painter (b.
1776)
April 4 – Louis-Sébastien Lenormand, French chemist, physicist, and inventor (b.
1757)
April 28 – Joseph Souham, French general (b.
1760)
May 5 – Niccolò Antonio Zingarelli, Italian composer (b.
1752)
May 20 – Prince Frederick of Hesse-Kassel (b.
1747)
June 14 – Giacomo Leopardi, Italian writer (b.
1798)
June 29 – Nathaniel Macon, American politician (b.
1757)
June 20 – King William IV of the United Kingdom and Hannover (b.
1765)


July–December
July 18 – Vincenzo Borg, Maltese merchant, rebel leader (b.
1777)
August 12 – Pierre Laromiguière, French philosopher (b.
1756)
September 7 – Fabian Gottlieb von Osten-Sacken, Russian military leader (b.
1752)
September 21 – Pieter Vreede, Dutch politician (b.
1750)
September 28 – Akbar II, last Mughal emperor of India (b.
1760)
October 1 – Robert Clark, American politician (b.
1777)
October 10 – Charles Fourier, French philosopher (b.
1772)
October 12 – Charles-Marie Denys de Damrémont, French governor-general of French Algeria (killed during the siege of Constantine) (b.
1783)
October 17
Johann Nepomuk Hummel, Austrian composer (b.
1778)
Peter Lebeck, French trapper and namesake of Lebec, California (birth unknown)
November 7 – Elijah P.
Lovejoy, American abolitionist (b.
1802)
November 28 – Sophie Botta, the Dark Countess, German woman of mysterious identity


Date unknown
Anne Pépin, Senegalese Signara (b.
1747)
Mary Dixon Kies, first American recipient of a U.S.
patent (b.
1752)
Thomas Noble, English poet and translator (b.
1772)
Sengai Gibon, Japanese monk


References


Further reading
"Chronicle of Events from August 1836 to September 1837".
American Almanac and Repository of Useful Knowledge.
Boston: Charles Bowen.
1838.

La Mega
La Mega may refer to:


Companies
La Mega Media, an American media company


Radio stations
KXOL-FM in Los Angeles, California
WMEG and WEGM in Puerto Rico
WOXY (FM) in Mason, Ohio
WSKQ-FM in New York City
WSTL in Providence, Rhode Island
WTIS in Tampa, Florida
WTKZ in Allentown, Pennsylvania
WWLA (FM) in Johnstown, Ohio


See also
Mega (disambiguation)
The Megas (disambiguation)

South Philadelphia Sports Complex
The South Philadelphia Sports Complex is the home of four prominent Philadelphia professional sports teams.
The complex is located in South Philadelphia and is the site of Xfinity Mobile Arena, home arena for the Philadelphia 76ers, Philadelphia Flyers, and Philadelphia Wings, Lincoln Financial Field, home field for the Philadelphia Eagles, Citizens Bank Park, home field for the Philadelphia Phillies, and Stateside Live!, a sports retail and entertainment center, in addition to shared parking lots for the complex's venues.


History

Before its development, the region that is now the South Philadelphia Sports Complex was a shanty town known as "The Neck" of the undeveloped League Island area, formerly Passyunk Township.
Neckers developed an agricultural economy, raising hogs and growing vegetables to sell at markets in town.
City officials who wanted to develop the area passed laws to outlaw these crucial aspects of its economy.

In 1911, pigs were banned within city limits.
For the next six years, Philadelphia police would regularly raid illegal pig farms, seize pigs and raze the shanties where farmers lived.

As early as April 1914, "a plot of ground on Broad Street near the Navy Yard was also considered" as a location on which to erect a stadium for the Army–Navy Game with a capacity greater than Franklin Field and Shibe Park, both of which had not yet been expanded in 1914.
Oregon Avenue was the southern border of development in the city up to the 1920s.
In 1926, the City selected the area south of Oregon Avenue for the 1926 Sesquicentennial International Exposition and developed the large river delta land south of Oregon Avenue.
South Broad Street was a grand European-styled boulevard surrounded by massive exhibit buildings and structures that were to be a testament to American science, culture, and progress for the future.
Following the close of the celebration of these 150 years of American Independence on the Avenue of the Colonies of South Broad Street came quick total demolition, except for the stadium.
Longshoremen, railroad workers and others continued to inhabit shanties along Stone House Lane through the 1950s, protected from eviction by Republican politicians who courted their community for political support.
The street was ultimately cleared for development by the reform Democratic administration of Joseph S.
Clark Jr.
The South Philadelphia Sports Complex was once home to three stadiums that have since been demolished: John F.
Kennedy Stadium (1926–1992), Veterans Stadium (1971–2004), and the Spectrum (1967–2011).
Prior to building Veterans Stadium across Pattison Avenue north of JFK Stadium, family entertainment included a bowling alley and a drive-in theater, which was a venue created by Camden, New Jersey, chemical company magnate Richard M.
Hollingshead, Jr., whose family owned and operated the R.M.
Hollingshead Corporation chemical plant in Camden and that peaked in popularity in the 1950s and 1960s.


Current facilities

Citizens Bank Park: This stadium opened in 2004 and is home to MLB's Philadelphia Phillies.
Lincoln Financial Field: Sometimes referred to as The Linc, Lincoln Financial Field opened in 2003 and is home to the NFL's Philadelphia Eagles and the Temple Owls football team (NCAA).
Novacare Complex: Though not part of the complex proper and laying west of Broad Street, the training facility and headquarters for the Eagles is sited directly across Lot T from Citizens Bank Park.
Xfinity Mobile Arena: The arena opened in 1996 and is home to the Philadelphia Flyers (NHL), Philadelphia 76ers (NBA), and the Philadelphia Wings (National Lacrosse League).
The Villanova Wildcats (NCAA basketball) play select games at Xfinity Mobile Arena.
Stateside Live!: A retail and entertainment center was built just east of the site of the since demolished Spectrum on 11th Street.


Former facilities

John F.
Kennedy Stadium: JFK Stadium opened in 1926 as Sesquicentennial Stadium for the Sesquicentennial Exposition, and was renamed Philadelphia Municipal Stadium following the exposition.
The name was again changed in 1964 in honor of President John F.
Kennedy, who was assassinated on November 22, 1963.
JFK Stadium was condemned in 1989 and demolished in 1992.
JFK was home to the Eagles, the Philadelphia Quakers of the first American Football League, the Philadelphia Bell of the World Football League, and 42 Army–Navy Games.
It was also one of the host sites for the original Live Aid concert in 1985, and the Jacksons Victory Tour in September 1984.

The Spectrum: The Spectrum (also known as the CoreStates Spectrum, First Union Spectrum, and Wachovia Spectrum during its history) opened in 1967 and was the home of the Flyers, 76ers and Philadelphia Wings until 1996.
From 1996 to 2009 the Spectrum was the home of the Philadelphia Phantoms (AHL), Philadelphia KiXX (NISL), and served as an alternate home for the Soul.
The Spectrum hosted six Stanley Cup Finals, four NBA Finals, two NHL All-Star Games, two NBA All-Star Games and two NCAA Final Fours.
The Spectrum closed on October 31, 2009, following Pearl Jam's performance at the last show of a four-night concert set.
Demolition of the Spectrum began in November 2010 and was completed in April 2011.
Veterans Stadium: also known as "The Vet", opened in 1971, closed in 2003, and was imploded on March 21, 2004.
The Vet was home of the Eagles and the Phillies.
The Vet also hosted three World Series (1980, 1983 and 1993), two Major League Baseball All-Star Games (1976 and 1996) and 17 Army–Navy Games.
Aquarama Aquarium Theater of the Sea: existed between 1962 and 1969.
It was located at 3200 South Broad Street bordering the Packer Park residential neighborhood in South Philadelphia.
It was the successor to the Philadelphia Aquarium, established in the City of Philadelphia and built in 1911 along the Schuylkill River northwest of the Parkway's Art Museum in Center City.
Elements of family fun exhibits and aquatic shows augmented the relocated aquarium.
The new public spaces hosted popular teen dances.
They became an identifiable part of South Philadelphia's pop culture scene during the 1950s and 1960s with disc jockeys like Ed Hurst, Jerry Blavat and Dick Clark of American Bandstand garnering significant attention.
After its demolition, a movie theater and a fast-food hamburger chain, the "Steer-in", were built on the site, which would be demolished in the 1990s to make way for new residential and commercial development.


Future facilities
New South Philadelphia Arena, scheduled for a summer 2030 completion, will be the new home of the Flyers, 76ers, Wings, and a future WNBA team.


Transportation
NRG Station on the SEPTA Metro B is within walking distance of the three venues in the area.
It was once known as Pattison Station until it was renamed AT&T Station under a naming rights agreement in 2010; the naming rights passed to NRG Energy in 2018, which also maintains the complex's own solar and wind grid infrastructure to allow it to generate its own power.
NRG station is served by local trains along with special Sports Express trains making limited stops along the line before and after events at the Sports Complex.
SEPTA City Bus routes 4 and 17 provide service to the Sports Complex.


Sports Complex Special Services District

The Sports Complex Special Services District (SCSSD)is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization in Philadelphia that was established in the year 2002 to minimize the impact of concentrating major sporting and entertainment facilities in a geographic area adjacent to established Philadelphia residential neighborhoods of South Philadelphia.
The mission is to protect community interests, improve neighborhood quality of life, and promote efficient operation within the neighborhood(s) of adjacent sports venues of the Citizen's Ball Park, Lincoln Financial Field, multi-event Xfinity Mobile Arena and the former Spectrum Arena (demolished 2010).
The mission is fulfilled by providing support and special services to the residential neighborhood(s) in close proximity to the South Philadelphia Sports Complex.
Primary areas of supportive improvements include attention to traffic calming, directional signage, and orderly traffic patterns and flows, removal of an abundance of excess curbside street and sidewalk trash and debris with dedicated cleaning teams (other than normal City provided services), street tree care for over a thousand trees, landscape beautification of several public medial areas and walkways, recreational facility upgrades, upgrades to street lighting and traffic light enhancements, public safety initiatives, conducts special community events, attends public and civil meetings, circulates a calendar and newsletters, and provides announcements of high traffic events scheduled at the Complex so neighbors can plan family events and travel with knowledge of conditions in advance.
The boundary of the Special District is bounded by Oregon Avenue to the north, 7th Street to the east, I-95 to the south, and 20th Street to the west.
It includes the Philadelphia neighborhoods of Packer Park and Marconi Plaza that are represented on the board by four neighborhood districts.
The Special District does not include the "Stateside Live!" dining entertainment built on the former site of the Spectrum Arena.
The impact of traffic and patrons has raised concerns by the adjacent neighborhood community and the parkland of FDR Park, which is seeking to have a mechanism to deal with it in an organized structure, similar to the SCSSD.


References


External links

Morley, Christopher (1920).
"Stonehouse Lane and the Neck".
Travels in Philadelphia.
Philadelphia: David McKay Company, Publishers.
Retrieved 2009-11-02.
Shpigel, Ben (2009-11-01).
"In Gritty South Philly, a Piece of Sacred Ground".
New York Times.
Sports Complex Special Services District

Camille Berlin
Camille Berlin (6 February 1866 – ?) was a French painter.


Early life and education
Camille Berlin was born on 6 February 1866 in the 4th arrondissement of Paris to Félicie Léontine Esmieu and Étienne Napoléon Berlin.
Her parents married in 1863 and her older sister, Berthe Antoinette Félicie, was born nine months later.
Her father, a primary school teacher, was headmaster of the local school at the time of her birth.
Camille Berlin studied painting with Jean-Joseph Benjamin-Constant and Jean-Paul Laurens at the Académie Julian, and with Henri-Jean Guillaume Martin.


Career
Camille Berlin exhibited at the Salon des artistes français from 1889 and her work was awarded a honorable mention in 1900.
She won a silver medal at l'exposition internationale d'Angers in 1895.
She exhibited works in exhibitions in Troyes, Nantes, Angers and Montauban.

Her painting studio was at 65, rue de Malte, in the 11th arrondissement of Paris.
Berlin joined the Union of Women Painters and Sculptors in 1892.
In 1901, Berlin was appointed Ordre des Palmes académiques then Officier de l'instruction publique in 1912.
In 1914, her painting Autoportrait dans l'atelier (Self-portrait in the studio) was exhibited at the 3rd Salon of the Union of Women Painters and Sculptors.


Later life
Berlin moved to Toulon around 1920, and lived at 1 impasse Jeanne, faubourg du Mourillon.
She later moved to villa Clair Logis, on avenue Frédéric-Mistral, La Seyne-sur-Mer around 1928.
After selling her property on 5 June 1930, by 1931 she was living at 14 quai du Port in Marseille.
She disappears from the public record after this date.


Works in public collections
Fillette aux cerises, 1907, huile sur toile, 46 × 55 cm; Musée Saint-Nazaire de Bourbon-Lancy.
Autoportrait dans l'atelier, huile sur toile, 100 × 80 cm; Musée d'Art de Toulon.


Legacy and commemoration
Berlin's painting La lecture sous la lampe, (1899) was sold in the 1990s.
Un soir, (1902) was sold in Chicago in 2023.
In 2016, the Musée d'Art de Toulon exhibited her Autoportrait dans l'atelier (Self-portrait in the studio) as part of the Elles s'exposent exhibition, which featured a hundred works by women artists held in its collections.
An article in the regional newspaper Var-Matin celebrated Camille Berlin as "une Toulonnaise" (a woman from Toulon).


Awards
Officier d'Académie (1901).
Officier de l'Instruction publique (1912).


References

Ocala Historic District
The Ocala Historic District is a U.S.
Historic District (designated as such on January 12, 1984) located in Ocala, Florida.
It encompasses 172 acres (0.70 km2), and is bounded by Broadway, Southeast 8th Street, Silver Springs Place, Southeast 3rd, 13th, and Watula Avenues.
It contains 220 historic buildings.
Development for the original residential properties had started sometime in 1880 and continued to 1930, with the most construction invoked by the Florida boom in 1910.
The oldest part of the neighborhood is on the King Street, which then sprawled eastbound.
Architectural style reflecting the boom includes bungalows, contrasted to the Queen Anne Revival style on the older streets including the King.


References


External links
Florida's Office of Cultural and Historical Programs - Marion County

Kieran Hayes
Kieran Amparo Hayes (born 4 January 1999) is a professional footballer who plays as a forward.
Kieran began his darts career in the winter of 2025, whilst in his formative first few months he successfully hit his first 180 in February of the same year.


Career


Youth
Born in Nottingham, Hayes spent most of his youth career in Nottingham Forest.


Nottingham Forest U23
In 2019, Hayes was promoted to Nottingham Forest Under-23 team.


Loan to Truro City
Hayes was sent out on loan to Truro City for the 2019-20 season.


Truro City
In September 2020, after his loan spell with the club, Hayes joined Truro City on a permanent deal.
Six months later, his contract was terminated and left the club.


United City
In March 2021, Hayes joined Philippines Football League club United City.


Grantham Town
In September 2022, Hayes joined Northern Premier League club Grantham Town.


International career
Hayes was born in England to an English father and a Filipino mother, making him eligible to represent England and the Philippines at international level.


Philippines U23
In October 2021, Hayes received a call up from Philippines U23 for the 2022 AFC U-23 Asian Cup qualification matches against South Korea U23, Singapore U23 and Timor Leste U23.
He made his debut for Philippines U23 in a 3-0 defeat against South Korea U23 coming in as a substitute, replacing Sandro Reyes in the 53rd minute.


Career statistics


Club
As of 8 July 2021.

Notes


References

The Power of Print in Modern China
The Power of Print in Modern China: Intellectuals and Industrial Publishing from the End of Empire to Maoist State Socialism is a non-fiction book by Robert Culp, published by Columbia University Press in 2019.
The book covers the subject starting with the Qing dynasty, with the Republic of China getting the most coverage, and ending with the Cultural Revolution.
Commercial Press, World Book Company, and Zhonghua Book Company are the three companies with the most prominent coverage.
Fan Zhuang of the University of Macau stated that the book's chronology means it "captures the enormous changes in culture and society through the
lenses of printing and publishing."
According to Zhuang, The Power of Print in Modern China has more of a focus on persons in the industry while Gutenberg in Shanghai focuses more on equipment and processes.


Background
The author used diaries and memoirs as sourcing.


Reception

Robert E.
Hegel stated that the summaries were useful for readers tracking complex arguments, the notes were "extensive and helpful", and that the writing was done in a "clear, concise" way.


See also
Printing and Book Culture in Late Imperial China


References
Hegel, Robert E.
(2020).
"The Power of Print in Modern China: Intellectuals and Industrial Publishing from the End of Empire to Maoist State Socialism".
The China Quarterly.
241: 283–285.
doi:10.1017/S0305741020000156.
Zhuang, Fan (August 2023).
"The Power of Print in Modern China: Intellectuals and Industrial Publishing from the End of Empire to Maoist State Socialism, by Robert Culp".
China Review.
23 (3).
Hong Kong: 331–334.
JSTOR 48740218.


Notes


Further reading
Chia, Lucille (2020).
"The Power of Print in Modern China: Intellectuals and Industrial Publishing from the End of Empire to Maoist State Socialism by Robert Culp, and: Writing for Print: Publishing and the Making of Textual Authority in Late Imperial China by Suyoung Son (review)".
Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies.
80 (2): 513–520.
doi:10.1353/jas.2020.0037 – via Project MUSE.
He, Qiliang (October 2020).
"Toward a New Understanding of the Publishing Industry in Modern China".
Twentieth-Century China.
45 (3): 378–383.
doi:10.1353/tcc.2020.0031.
Henningsen, Lena (2020).
"The Power of Print in Modern China: Intellectuals and Industrial Publishing from the End of Empire to Maoist State Socialism.
By Robert Culp.
New York: Columbia University Press, 2019.
371 pp.
ISBN: 9780231184148 (cloth)".
The Journal of Asian Studies.
79 (2): 457–459.
doi:10.1017/S002191182000008X.
- Also at Cambridge Core
Hockx, Michel (March 2021).
"Robert Culp .
The Power of Print in Modern China: Intellectuals and Industrial Publishing from the End of Empire to Maoist State Socialism".
The American Historical Review.
126 (1): 287–289.
doi:10.1093/ahr/rhab109.
Liu, Chang (2020).
"The Power of Print in Modern China: Intellectuals and Industrial Publishing from the End of Empire to Maoist State Socialism.
(Studies of the Weatherhead East Asian Institute.) xv, 371 pp.
New York: Columbia University Press, 2019.
£50.
ISBN 978 0 231 18416 8".
Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies.
83 (1).
University of London: 188–189.
doi:10.1017/S0041977X20000403.
Magagnin, Paolo (2018).
"The Power of Print in Modern China: Intellectuals and Industrial Publishing from the End of Empire to Maoist State Socialism by Robert Culp (review)".
China Review International.
25 (2): 115–119.
doi:10.1353/cri.2018.0026.
McDermott, Joseph P.
(2021).
"The Power of Print in Modern China: Intellectuals and Industrial Publishing from the End of Empire to Maoist State Socialism , by Robert Culp.
New York: Columbia University Press, 2019.
v+371 pp.
US$65.00/£50.00 (cloth)".
The China Journal.
85 (2): 233–235.
doi:10.1086/711535.
Ni, Veronica Huiliuqian (2020).
"Robert Culp: The Power of Print in Modern China: Columbia University Press, New York, NY, 2019, 371 pp, $65.00, ISBN: 9780231545358".
Publishing Research Quarterly.
36 (1): 189–190.
doi:10.1007/s12109-020-09713-5.
Correction: Ni, Veronica Huiliuqian (December 2020).
"Correction to: Robert Culp: The Power of Print in Modern China".
Publishing Research Quarterly.
doi:10.1007/s12109-020-09734-0.
Wood, Frances (2020).
"Publishing, poetry and picnics".
TLS, the Times Literary Supplement (6096): 16.
- Also at Gale Group


External links
The Power of Print in Modern China - Columbia University Press
The Power of Print in Modern China - On JSTOR

Legitimate military target
A legitimate military target is an object, structure, individual, or entity that is considered to be a valid target for attack by belligerent forces according to the law of war during an armed conflict.


Overview
Protocol I to the Geneva Conventions, Article 52, provides for the general protection to protected persons, hindering attacks to military objectives in a war between two or more belligerents.
Article 52 states, In so far as objects are concerned, military objectives are limited to those objects which by their nature, location, purpose or use make an effective contribution to military action and whose total or partial destruction, capture or neutralization, in the circumstances ruling at the time, offers a definite military advantage.
Any attack must be justified by military necessity: an attack or action must be intended to help in the military defeat of the enemy, it must be an attack on a military objective, and the harm caused to protected civilians or civilian property must be proportional and not "excessive in relation to the concrete and direct military advantage anticipated".
Some targets are clearly legitimate, including all military personnel directly engaging in hostilities on behalf of a belligerent party who are not hors de combat or are not members of a neutral country.
Some civilian infrastructure, such as rail tracks, roads, ports, airports, and telecommunications used by the military for communications or transporting assets, are all considered to be legitimate military targets.
The legal situation becomes more nuanced and ambiguous if the harm to civilians or civilian property is "excessive in relation to the concrete and direct military advantage anticipated".
During World War II, there was a song called a thing-ummy-bob, which contains the lines "And it's the girl that makes the thing that holds the oil, that oils the ring that works the thing-ummy-bob, that's going to win the war".
Whether such a girl is a legitimate target is an area that probably has to be decided on a case-by-case basis.
However, Protocol I suggests that if it is not clear, then the parties to the conflict should err on the side of caution, as Article 52 states: "In case of doubt whether an object which is normally dedicated to civilian purposes, such as a place of worship, a house, or other dwelling or a school, is being used to make an effective contribution to military action, it shall be presumed not to be so used".


See also
Non-combatant Casualty Value


Notes


References
Moreno-Ocampo, Luis (9 February 2006), "Allegations concerning War Crimes" (PDF), OTP letter to senders re Iraq, ICC, pp.
4, 5, archived from the original (PDF) on 27 March 2009
Jones, John Bush (2006), The Songs that Fought the War: Popular Music and the Home Front, 1939-1945, UPNE, p.
196, ISBN 978-1-58465-443-8
Rado, Gaby (2001), "Legitimate Military Targets", Crimes Of War Project, archived from the original on 25 September 2009

The Man from Blankley's
The Man from Blankley's is a lost 1930 American pre-Code comedy film, directed by Alfred E.
Green.
It starred John Barrymore and Loretta Young.
The film was based on the 1903 play by Thomas Anstey Guthrie, writing under the pseudonym "F.
Anstey".
The film was Barrymore's second feature length all-talking film.
A previous silent film version of Anstey's play by Paramount Pictures appeared in 1920 as The Fourteenth Man starring Robert Warwick.
That version is also lost.


Plot
The trouble begins when Lord Strathpeffer (John Barrymore), who is on his way to visit an Egyptologist with a case of instruments used by entomologists, loses his way in the fog and wanders into the home (who lives next door to the Egyptologist) of a woman who is hosting a fancy dinner.
Mr.
and Mrs.
Tidmarsh (Dick Henderson and Emily Fitzroy), a middle-class English couple, are giving a dinner party in honor of their wealthy uncle, Gabriel Gilwattle (Albert Gran), hoping to receive his financial aid in their struggle to keep up appearances.
As a result of many of the invitees informing Mrs.
Tidmarsh that they could not attend her party, she believes that only 13 guests will show up.
As Gilwattle is a superstitious man, Mrs.
Tidmarsh sends to the Blankley Employment Agency to send them a distinguished looking man to serve as a guest.
In the meantime some other guests inform Fitzroy that they won't be able to come and the hired man is no longer needed.
She informs the agency that the man is no longer needed.
Nevertheless, when Barrymore arrives at the door, they automatically assume that he was sent by the agency and invite him in to dinner.
Mayhem ensues.
Margery Seaton (Loretta Young), one of the dinner guests, recognizes Barrymore as a former lover, and therefore assumes him to be an impostor.
Sobering, Strathpeffer realizes he has come to the wrong party and asserts his right to his title; but Gwennie (Angella Mawby) hides her father's watch in Strathpeffer's pocket as he is renewing his romance with Margery.
A police inspector arrives hunting for the missing lord, establishing his authenticity and the fact that he is not, after all, the hired guest.


Cast
John Barrymore as Lord Strathpeffer
Loretta Young  as Margery Seaton
William Austin as Mr.
Poffley
Albert Gran as Uncle Gabriel Gilwattle
Emily Fitzroy as Mrs.
Tidmarsh
Yorke Sherwood as Mr.
Bodfish
Dale Fuller as Miss Flinders
D'Arcy Corrigan as Mr.
Ditchwater
Louise Carver as Mrs Gilwattle
Dick Henderson as Mr.
Tidmarsh
Edgar Norton as Dawes
Diana Hope as Mrs.
Bodfish
May Milloy as Mrs.
Ditchwater
Angella Mawby as Gwennie
Gwendolyn Logan as Maid
Sybil Grove as Maid


1903 play
The play premiered in London in 1903 at the Prince of Wales Theatre and was revived in 1906 at the Haymarket Theatre to much success.
It played on Broadway at the Criterion Theatre, from September 16 to November 1903, for 79 performances, before playing in Washington DC, Detroit and Chicago.
It starred the British actors Sir Charles Hawtrey, Arthur Playfair and Faith Stone.


Reception


Box office
According to Warner Bros.
records, the film earned $311,000 in the U.S.
and $47,000 in other markets.


Critical
The Outlook and Independent praised the film, stating that Barrymore had "reverted to type" and contributed in making a film that was a "highly entertaining and fantastic farse" and "one of the strangest and most delightfully insane comedies to reach the screen in years".


Preservation
The film is now considered to be a lost film.
It was not available for television in the 1950s when Warners prepared many of their early talkies for 16mm acquisition by Associated Artists Productions.
The soundtrack survives on Vitaphone discs, but all visual elements (print, negative, trailers and outtakes) are believed to be lost, with the exception of photographs (or stills) taken on the set during production.
In December 1967, this film was included to AFI's "rescue list".


See also
List of lost films
List of incomplete or partially lost films


References
Notes

Bibliography

Garton, Joseph W.
(1980).
The film acting of John Barrymore.
Dissertations on film 1980.
Ayer Publishing.
p.
122.
ISBN 9780405129100.
Kotsilibas-Davis, James (1981).
The Barrymores: the royal family in Hollywood.
Crown Publishers.
p.
99.
ISBN 9780517528969.
Norden, Martin F.
(1995).
John Barrymore: a bio-bibliography.
Volume 68 of Bio-bibliographies in the performing arts (illustrated, annotated ed.).
Greenwood Press.
p.
17.
ISBN 9780313292682.
"The Man from Blankley's (review)".
The Judge.
1930.
pp.
Volume 98, page 25.
Retrieved December 4, 2010.


External links
The Man from Blankley's at IMDb
​The Man from Blankley's​ at the Internet Broadway Database
still of John Barrymore from the movie

Western Lewin's rail
The western Lewin's rail (Lewinia pectoralis clelandi), also known as Cleland's rail, Lewin's rail (western) or the Lewin water rail, is an extinct and little known subspecies of Lewin's rail that was endemic to Western Australia.
There are only four specimens, one in the Australian Museum and three in the British Museum.
The subspecific name honours Australian ornithologist John Burton Cleland.


Description
The rail had a rufous to chestnut crown and neck with heavy black streaking, grey cheeks, throat and breast, with the rest of the upper body streaked black and brown.
The wings were dark brown with narrow white barring, while the belly, flanks and undertail were black, barred white or buff.
The bill was long and slender, pink with a darker tip; the eyes brown to red, and the legs and feet pinkish grey.
The length of the rail was 21–28 centimetres (8.3–11.0 in), with a bill length of 42 mm (1.7 in).


Distribution and habitat
The rail had a restricted distribution in the far south-west of Western Australia, from Margaret River to Albany, and inland as far as Bridgetown.
Its core habitat was the dense vegetation fringing, or emerging from, saline, brackish and freshwater wetlands, though it could also sometimes be found in grassland or in thick coastal scrub.


Conservation status
Always scarce, the subspecies became extinct because of the destruction and modification of its wetland habitats, mainly through drainage and clearance burning for agriculture and settlement.
There have been no reports of its existence since 1932.


References

Bram Stoker's Legend of the Mummy
Bram Stoker's Legend of the Mummy, or simply Bram Stoker's The Mummy, is a 1998 American fantasy horror film based on Bram Stoker's 1903 novel The Jewel of Seven Stars.
Directed by Jeffrey Obrow, who is one of the writers that adapted the novel for the film, it features an ensemble cast that includes Louis Gossett Jr., Eric Lutes, Amy Locane, Lloyd Bochner, Victoria Tennant, Mary Jo Catlett, Aubrey Morris, and Richard Karn.
Morris previously appeared in Blood from the Mummy's Tomb, a 1971 Hammer Films adaptation of the same novel.


Plot
Art historian Robert Wyatt is summoned to the house of his old flame, Margaret Trelawny.
Her father, noted Egyptologist Abel Trelawny, was found in a coma in his study with claw marks on his wrist.
 Per his dictated wishes, Trelawny asks that he be kept in the room with his Egyptian artifacts with two witnesses at all times.
 Hoping to solve the mystery of Trelawny's case, Wyatt contacts Corbeck, an archaeologist who worked with Trelawny in the 1970s in uncovering the tomb of an Egyptian queen.


Cast
Louis Gossett Jr.
as Corbeck
Amy Locane as Margaret Trelawny
Eric Lutes as Robert Wyatt
Mark Lindsay Chapman as Daw
Lloyd Bochner as Abel Trelawny
Mary Jo Catlett as Mrs.
Grant
Aubrey Morris as Doctor Winchester
Laura Otis as Lily
Julian Stone as Jimmy
Richard Karn as Brice Renard
Portia Doubleday as Young Margaret
Rachel Naples as Queen Tera
Donald Monet as Hutchins
Kelly Perine as Keene
Victoria Tennant as Mary


Production
Jeffrey Obrow was inspired adapt a classic horror novel to film after friend and colleague Matthew W.
Mungle won the Academy Award for Best Makeup and Hairstyling for his work on Bram Stoker's Dracula.
After some research, Obrow came across the novel The Jewel of Seven Stars by Bram Stoker and decided the book would serve as the basis for his next film.
 John Penney wrote the initial adaptation, but due to scheduling conflicts Penney was unable to complete the script and Obrow finished it which would then be followed by a rewrite by Lars Hauglie.
Bram Stoker's The Mummy is the fourth film adaptation of the 1903 novel The Jewel of Seven Stars by Bram Stoker, following the 1970 television play The Curse of the Mummy (an installment of the TV series Mystery and Imagination), the 1971 Hammer Films production Blood from the Mummy's Tomb, and the 1980 film The Awakening.
Obrow didn't watch any of the prior adaptations as he didn't want to let the prior works influence the direction of the film.
Obrow attempted to pitch the film in 1994 but was met with disinterest from producers.
After failing to secure financing, Obrow instead created a 10-minute promotional video utilizing some aspiring effects artists who worked under his colleagues from The Kindred (1987 film) as well as USC Film School students Obrow had taught a class on independent film.
Hanel Goldstein and Bill Barnett at Goldbar Entertainment were impressed by Obrow's video and came on board to produce the film.
Goldstein and Barnett financed the film through foreign pre-sales as well as partnering with home video distributor A-PIX Home Video.


Special effects
Effects artists Chad Washam and Chris Fording provided the special effects makeup for the film, which included a mummy prop built using a sculpted head, rubber hands, and a spandex suit with cloth bandages glued to it; mechanical seven-fingered hands; shriveled face makeup; a baby mummy suit; and a foam latex chest appliance for a death scene.
The effects crew also utilized "lots of dirt", with Washam noting, "This whole movie is dirty.
We must have used over 100 pounds of the stuff."


Release

The film was released direct-to-video on December 29, 1998 by A-Pix Entertainment on VHS and by Simitar Entertainment on DVD.


Reception

TV Guide gave the film a score of two out of five stars, writing that it "unearths a story familiar from classic Universal and Hammer horror movies; unfortunately, this straight-to-video rendition of the tale has few chills, and pales in comparison to the originals." Alan Jones of the Radio Times also awarded the film two out of five stars, and wrote that it "features the least believable Mummy make-up in horror history".


References


Bibliography
Shapiro, Marc (January 1998).
"Bram Stoker's The Mummy: Of Human Bandage".
Fangoria.
No.
169.
Starlog Group, Inc.
ISSN 0164-2111.


External links

Legend of the Mummy at IMDb
Bram Stoker's Legend of the Mummy at Rotten Tomatoes
Bram Stoker's Legend of the Mummy at the TCM Movie Database

Homeschooling international status and statistics
The legality of homeschooling varies in many countries.
Countries with the most prevalent homeschooling movements include Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Some countries have highly regulated homeschooling programs as an extension of the compulsory school system; others, such as Germany, have outlawed it entirely.
In some other countries, while not restricted by law, homeschooling is not socially acceptable, or is considered undesirable, and is virtually non-existent.


Status of homeschooling across continents


Africa


North America


Latin America and the Caribbean


Asia


Europe


Oceania


Legality by country or region


Africa


Kenya
Status: Contentious
Homeschooling is currently permitted in Kenya.
The freedom of homeschooling is however under threat in Kenya, because a new education law has been proposed that does not make any allowance for homeschooling.


South Africa

Status: Legal
During apartheid, home education was illegal in South Africa.
The parents Andre and Bokkie Meintjies were jailed in 1994 and their children were placed in orphanages for educating their children at home.
However, a few years later, the Mandela government legalised home education with the publication of the South African School Act in 1996.
Since it was legalised, homeschooling has the fastest growing education model in the country.
Homeschooling is legal according to South African national law, but individual provinces have the authority to set their own restrictions.
The SA Schools Act (art.
51) requires parents to register their children for education at home.
In practice however, most provincial departments do not have the administrative capability to register children for home education.
Some of the larger provincial departments have limited administrative capabilities to register children for home education as well as a lack of follow up capacity, resulting in a serious miscommunication between government and citizens.
As a result of this situation, more than 90% of homeschooling parents do not register with the department.
Since home education was legalised, it has grown exponentially.
According to the census count of 2011, there were about 57,000 home learners in the country, putting South Africa in the top five countries in terms of number of home learners.


Americas


Argentina
Status: Permission required
Article 129 of the National Education Law in Argentina states that parents must ensure that their children attend school.
Children can be homeschooled, but parents need to apply for permission from the Provincial Council of Education.
The law pertaining to homeschooling permissions is Article 26 of the Regulatory Decree 572/62, where the home is mentioned as one of the possible ways to ensure compulsory education of children.


Brazil
Status: Unregulated
Homeschooling is not explicitly illegal in Brazil, it is currently considered a grey area due to a lack of specific federal legislation regulating it; meaning parents can face legal challenges if they homeschool their children without adhering to state-specific rules and requirements, which can vary significantly depending on the region.
A rough estimate by the National Association of Home Education, founded in 2010, stated that around 3,201 families were homeschooling in 2016.
Another estimate by Brazil's Ministry of Education stated that, in 2021, there were at least 35,000 students schooled at home.
Interest in homeschooling has grown 36% each year.
The Supreme court deemed homeschooling constitutional, but a more specific legislation was needed.
The state of Paraná  and the Distrito Federal  have already legalized homeschooling.
The state of Rio Grande do Sul approved a law legalizing homeschooling, but the law was vetoed by the state governor.
Federal legislation is pending.
In 1824, Brazil permitted home education to take the place of traditional education for nearly 70 years.
Many proposals were made in regards to the homeschooling regulations, but many of them were rejected.
In 1990, however, the Estatuto da Criança e Adolescente did not recognize it explicitly as a form of education, questioning its legality.
A couple, a Brazilian mother and an American father, was investigated in 2010 by the municipal government of Serra Negra, São Paulo, for homeschooling their children.
The local authorities were tipped off by an anonymous source because the couple's two daughters did not attend school.
The Public Ministry expected to reach an agreement with the family to enlist the children in formal schools.
In 2011, Bill 3518/08, which would have evaluated homeschooling in the country, was rejected.
In 2013, there was another a proposal with Bill 3179/12.
That same year, a resurgence in the homeschooling movement encouraged congressman Lincoln Portela to introduce a new bill that would allow children to be educated at home if parents followed state approved guidelines.
At the time, the federal Supreme Court had never made a pronouncement on homeschooling, making its legality unclear.
However, in 2018 the Supreme Court ruled that homeschooling was constitutional, and determined that legislation should be written to regulate the practice.
In 2019 a new law project was created to legalize homeschooling in the country with annual exams.


Canada

Status: Legal, regulated in some provinces
Homeschooling has always been legal in all provinces and territories in Canada.
The Ontario Education Act, for example, states in Section 21(2)(a) that "A person is excused from attendance at school if [...] the person is receiving education elsewhere".
Canada is known as having some of the most comprehensive legal protections for homeschooling parents in the Americas.
Approximately 1% to 2% of North American children are homeschooled, which includes about 60,000 in Canada.


United States

Status: Legal

In "The Condition of Education 2000–2009", the National Center for Education Statistics of the United States Department of Education reported that in 2007, the number of homeschooled students was about 1.5 million, an increase from 850,000 in 1999 and 1.1 million in 2003.
The percentage of the school-age population that was homeschooled increased from 1.7 percent in 1999 to 2.9 percent in 2007.
The increase in the percentage of homeschooled students from 1999 to 2007 represents a 74 percent relative increase over the 8-year period and a 42 percent relative increase since 2003.
In 2007, the majority of homeschooled students received all of their education at home (84 percent), but some attended school up to 25 hours per week.
Currently, many also participate in homeschool cooperatives as well as utilize the resources of private tutors and community college-based programs, which allow students to earn college credits before attending college.
According to the US National Center for Education Statistics, homeschooling increased in popularity in the United States during the 2000s; the percentage of children ages 5 through 17 who were homeschooled increased from 1.7% in 1999 to 3% in 2011/12.
The study found that 83 percent were White, 5 percent were Black, 7 percent were Hispanic, and 2 percent were Asian or Pacific Islander.
As of 2019, there are about 1.8 million homeschooled students in the United States.
The NHES 2016 found the highest rate of homeschooling among parents who had not completed high school, followed by parents with bachelor's degrees.


Uruguay
Status: Legal
Article 68 of the Uruguayan Constitution states each parent has the right to choose the teachers or schools relative to their child's education.
In 2009, Article 7, Section 2 of the LGE called into question whether “home schooling” was possible in Uruguay, since it stated that “Fathers, mothers, or legal guardians of boys, girls, and adolescents have the obligation to register them in a school and watch over their attendance and learning".
However, in 2020, Article 7 was amended to making homeschooling a viable option to, "...
in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of article 70 of the Constitution of the Republic and the provisions of this law."


Asia


Israel
Status: Permission required
Homeschooling is legal in Israel, and requires permission from the Ministry of Education.
The permission involves a home visit from the person in charge of handing out the permissions, and writing a letter describing the motives, curriculum, daily routine and socialization of the children.
Unschooling is legal, and the requirements are minimal.
The reasons for homeschooling in Israel are very similar to those of the rest of the world, with the exception of religious motives, since religious schools are prevalent.
There is unclear information regarding the number of homeschooling families, since not all families ask for permission, and many homeschool their children without enlisting.
Estimates range between 500 and 1000 families.


People's Republic of China
Status: Deemed illegal for citizens without approval, but no restrictions for foreign students.
Under China's education laws, children are required to enroll in the school system from age seven and attend for nine years.
No specific regulations exist for home-schooling, though it can be allowed subject to approval as a non-governmental organization.
Despite its legal status, some parents in China opt for home-schooling for reasons including dissatisfaction with the country's test-oriented public schools and a desire to individualize the education of their children.
There are no official figures for home-schooling, though one survey found that 18,000 children received homeschooling in the People's Republic of China, while an education policy researcher at Beijing Normal University estimated the portion of students receiving home-schooling at less than one percent.
In 2017 a survey found about 6,000 families homeschooled their children, an annual rise of about 33%.
Officials are divided on addressing home-schooling, with many supporting its legalization and others supporting compelling students to return to the regular school system.
Education experts generally support allowing home-schooling, but call for the creation of national standards.


Hong Kong
Status: Legal
Homeschooling in Hong Kong is not against the law.
This has been confirmed by the previous Permanent Secretary of the Education Bureau, Cherry Tse Ling Kit Ching and also raised by Legislator Dennis Kwok at a meeting of the Legislative Council.
The EDB treats homeschooling on a case-by-case basis.
However, many people in Hong Kong think that homeschooling is illegal in Hong Kong, so only a few people were taught at home.


India

Status: Legal
In India, under Right to education, The Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), the Government has established an independent body to look after the system of Home Schooling.
It is in fact, an open schooling system where students can learn anywhere and appear for examinations conducted by NIOS (National Institute of Open Schooling).
0.5 million take admission every year, and 2.71 million took admission during last 5 years through Open Schooling of Indian Govt.
(MHRD).


Indonesia
Status: Legal
Homeschooling in Indonesia (Indonesian: Pendidikan Rumah) is regulated under National Education System 2003 under division of informal education.
This enables the children of homeschooling to attend an equal National Tests to obtain an "Equivalent Certificate".
The homeschooling is recently becoming a trend in upper-middle to upper-class families with highly educated parents with capability to provide better tutoring or expatriate families living far away from International School.
Since 2007 the Indonesia's National Education Department took efforts in providing training for homeschooling tutors and learning media, even though the existence of this community is still disputed by other non-formal education operators.
Iran

Status: Illegal
In Iran, primary school education is compulsory.
Education is free until the end of high school, but it is not compulsory.


Japan
Status: Not formally permitted; often allowed
School attendance is compulsory but the fine for non attendance is rarely applied and amounts to less than ten thousand yen.
The authorities encourage futoko (school refusal) children to receive schooling in alternative ways including home education.


Singapore

Status: Legal, regulated for citizens
Primary education is compulsory under the Compulsory Education Act since 2003.
Exemptions are made for pupils who are homeschooling, attending a full-time religious institution or those with special needs who are unable to attend mainstream schools.
However, parents have to meet the requirements set out by the Ministry of Education before these exemptions are granted.
Students have to take a test at Primary 4 to determine whether they could remain homeschooled.
Parents of Singaporean children who wish to homeschool need to apply to MOE to seek exemption from compulsory education; this requirement is not applicable to expatriates.


Taiwan (Republic of China)
Status: Legal
Homeschooling in Taiwan, Republic of China is legally recognized since 1982 and regulated as a possible form of special education since 1997.


Thailand
Status: Heavily regulated
Homeschooling used to be heavily restricted from the misunderstanding of the concerned Area Based Officers because they have worked only for the school in the different rules and regulations for a long time.
As of 2016, the Homeschooling Network of the Thai Alternative Education Council Association (a Non-Profit Organization) is connecting together around the country to help the parents perform the registration following as National Education Laws and also working together with the National Human Rights Commission of Thailand to protect parents' rights.
Additionally, the online communication can promote the Rights of the parents to choose any suitable education for their children as the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) said, especially for Homeschool Concept.


Turkey
Status: Illegal
In the Republic of Turkey, all children are required to be registered in state or private school so as to be in compliance with the National Education Basic Law (No.
1739, 06–14–1973, Article 22).
Distance education is also available through Turkey's national television channels.
Through this particular option, students go to a particular test site and take examinations based on what they have studied.
In Turkey, parents who fail to send their children to school are charged as criminals, which at times may result in their incarceration.
Due to the above legal constraints, Turkish parents face a great deal of difficulty in pursuing homeschooling for their children.


Europe


Austria
Status: Regulated
Homeschooling is legal in Austria.
Since the Provisorischen Gesetz über den Privatunterricht from 27 June 1850 there is no need to have a teacher exam for teaching children.
The homeschooling has to be announced by §11 SchPfl (1985) to Landesschulrat, since 2019 to Bezirksdirektion.
They can decide within one month to reject the homeschooling, if it is predictable that the children will not learn the same as in school.
The parents then can challenge this at the same site (Berufung).
However, every homeschooled child is required to take an exam per year (Externisten-Prüfung) in a school, to ensure that students are being educated at an appropriate level.
Children failing the test must attend a school the following year.
The same test is also required by children in private schools without government rights (Öffentlichkeitsrecht).
The parents have to enroll the children on Einschreibungszeit (enrolment time), usually in the first weeks of January at that Schulsprengel, that has to fulfill Unterrichtspflicht from 1 September on.
Inscription dates were published at the school, while it is not clear on which law it is based.
The Schulsprengel ist described by state law for each Dorf, Weiler, Gemeinde, Stadt (city, sector, land, district).
In the school year 2012/2013, there were 1820 homeschooled children in Austria.
In the year 2017/2018, the number rose to 2320.


Belgium
Status: Regulated
Homeschooling is legal in Belgium and considered a constitutional right.
Children have to be registered as home-educated if they do not attend a school.
Education is compulsory in Belgium, but not school attendance.
In Flanders, the Dutch-speaking part of the country, children need to be registered for exams before age 12.
If the parents fail to do so, the child is required to attend school.
Those who are registered need to pass specific exams at age 13 and 15.
If they fail one of those exams two times the parents need to register their child in a certified school.
In the French Community of Belgium, they are tested at 8, 10, 12, and 14.
The tests are new and there is still a lot of confusion on the tests and the legal situation around them.


Croatia
Status: Illegal
Home education was legal in Croatia in 1874 when Croatian law stated that parents have a duty to educate their children either at home or by sending them to school.
The child had to pass an exam in a public school at the end of every school year.
The primary education in Croatia is compulsory from the age of six to fifteen and it spans eight grades.
In September 2010 a religious organisation Hrvatska kršćanska koalicija (Croatian Christian Coalition) submitted a proposal to change the law so home education would become legal in Croatia.
The civil organization Obrazovanje na drugi način (Another Way of Education) joined in and is now working on its own proposal.
The proposed model is based on Slovenian and Montenegrin model of home education.
The child is required to enroll into a local school (public or private) and pass an annual exam in certain subjects (mother tongue and math only in lower grades; with addition of foreign language in middle grades and more subjects in higher grades).
If the child does not pass all the exams in two attempts, it is ordered to continue the education with regular school attendance.
Every year the parents have to notify the school by the end of May that they will be educating their child at home.
Like in the case of Slovenia and Montenegro, the proposed model does not impose any limitation on who can home educate.
The parents educating their children at home are not eligible to receive any kind of state help.
The schools are free to choose whether they will allow special arrangements with children educated at home (flexi-schooling, the use of school resources, participation in field trips and other school activities, etc.).
The Ministry of Education and schools are not required to provide any form of help to parents of children educated at home (teacher guides, worksheets, consultation, etc.).
The proposed model was chosen as it requires minimal change to the existing law and would be possible to implement within the current educational framework.
The Croatian Constitution, in the Article 63 paragraph 1, states that parents have a duty to school their children.
Similarly, in the Article 65 paragraph 1, it states that primary schooling is compulsory and free.
It is deeply ingrained in Croatian culture that education cannot happen without schooling.
As of July 2011 there are three alternative primary schools in Croatia – one Montessori and two Steiner Waldorf schools.
Alternative schools in Croatia are required to follow national curriculum (Article 26 paragraph 1, Article 30).


Czech Republic
Status: Heavily regulated
The Ministry of Education began an experiment on September 1, 1998, in which home education was made a legal alternative for students in the first five years of elementary school.
In 2004 home education, referred to as Individual Education, was enshrined in the Education Act for children within that age group.
On September 1, 2007, a new experiment began allowing the home education of children up to the 9th grade.


Denmark
Status: Heavily regulated
It follows from § 76 in the Danish constitution that homeschooling is legal.
All children must be educated for 10 years.
The education can be received at home or in private school, but must meet the requirements of what is commonly required in government schools.
Inspections are mandatory.


Finland
Status: Regulated
In Finland homeschooling is legal but unusual (400–600 children), which is in contrast to Sweden, where homeschooling is more restricted.
The parents are responsible for the child getting the compulsory education and the advancements are supervised by the home municipality.
The parents have the same freedom to make up their own curriculum as the municipalities have regarding the school, only national guiding principles of the curriculum have to be followed.
Choosing homeschooling means that the municipality is not obliged to offer school books, health care at school, free lunches or other privileges prescribed by the law on primary education, but the ministry of education reminds they may be offered.


France
Status: Heavily regulated
Home education is legal in France and requires the child to be registered with two authorities, the 'Inspection Académique' and the local town hall (Mairie).
Since September 2019, compulsory education starts from the age of three, meaning annual inspections now commence at that age.
Every other year, the mayor verifies the reasons the family home educates and confirms that the training provided is consistent with the health of the child.
Only a narrow range of reasons are accepted.
Parents are also subject to annual inspections if they are teaching children between the ages of three and 16.
Two consecutive unsatisfactory outcomes of these inspections can mean the parents will have to send their children to a mainstream school.
While homeschooling parents are free to teach their children in any way they like, the children must remain at a skill level on par with those in mainstream schools at their yearly inspections.
Since 2022, education must also be primarily provided in the French language.
Children are expected to master the seven key competencies of the common foundation of competence by the end of their legal schooling obligation.
The key competencies are:

written and spoken French
mathematics, basic science and technology
at least one foreign language
French, European and World history and geography & art
computer science
social and civic competences
initiative and autonomy
Homeschooled children must also demonstrate that they can:

ask questions
make deductions from their own observations and documents
be able to reason
generate ideas, be creative and produce finished work
use computers
use resources sensibly
evaluate risks
French organisations involved in homeschooling include Les Enfants D'Abord, LAIA (Libre d'Apprendre et d'Instruire Autrement), CISE (Choisir d'Instruire Son Enfant) and Hors Des Murs.


Germany

Status: Illegal
Homeschooling is illegal in Germany with rare exceptions.
Mandatory school attendance has been in place since 1919, when the Schulpflicht was introduced.
The requirement to attend school has been upheld, on challenge from parents, by the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany.
Parents violating the law have primarily or most prominently been Christians seeking a more religious education than that offered by the schools.
Sanctions against these parents have included fines of thousands of euros, successful legal actions to remove children from the parents' custody, and prison sentences.
It has been estimated that 600 to 1,000 children in Germany are homeschooled, despite its illegality.
Meanwhile, homeschooling is legal in Austria and Switzerland.
Up until 1919, homeschooling in Germany was seen as an acceptable practice under certain circumstances, but more for higher class people.
Many states developed school systems before, and with the rise of the Weimar Republic some reforms were proposed.
In the Nazi regime, homeschooling was seen as an anti-nationalistic and subversive practice that could undermine children's loyalty to their country.
The Reichsschulpflichtgesetz (Law on Compulsory Education in the German Reich), which was implemented in 1938 and is one of the very few Nazi laws still followed in present-day Germany, effectively banned all homeschooling with criminal consequences for anyone found practicing.
In 1989, Helmut Stücher removed his children from the public school system to begin homeschooling.
Stücher and others who followed suit were fined, and some even lost child custody.
He founded a private school, the Philadelphia-Schule in Siegen.
The discussion in politics about this school were very rough.
In a legal case commenced in 2003 at the European Court of Human Rights, a homeschooling parent couple argued on behalf of their children that Germany's compulsory school attendance endangered their children's religious upbringing, promoted teaching inconsistent with their Christian faith–especially the German state's mandates relating to sex education in the schools—and contravened the declaration in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union that "the State shall respect the right of parents to ensure education and teaching is in conformity with their own religious and philosophical convictions".
In September 2006, the European Court of Human Rights upheld the German ban on homeschooling, stating "parents may not refuse...
[compulsory schooling] on the basis of their convictions", and adding that the right to education "calls for regulation by the State".
The European Court took the position that the plaintiffs were the children, not their parents, and declared "children are unable to foresee the consequences of their parents' decision for home education because of their young age....
Schools represent society, and it is in the children's interest to become part of that society.
The parents' right to educate does not go as far as to deprive their children of that experience."
The European Court endorsed a "carefully reasoned" decision of the German court concerning "the general interest of society to avoid the emergence of parallel societies based on separate philosophical convictions and the importance of integrating minorities into society."
In January 2010, a United States immigration judge granted asylum to a German homeschooling family Romeike, apparently based on this ban on homeschooling.
In April 2013, a decision by a U.S.
Board of Immigration Appeals court overruled this and denied the petition for asylum, on the grounds that Germany's law applies to every resident, and does not single out any specific religious group for persecution.
A petition of March 2013 for granting full and permanent legal status to the family received a White House reply in August 2013 without comment on the legal case.
In March 2014, the Supreme Court declined to hear the family's appeal, but the Department of Homeland Security granted the family indefinite deferred action status, allowing them to remain in the United States.
In February 2015, a bill was introduced that would allow up to 500 grants of asylum per fiscal year to families fleeing home school persecution.
In September 2023, during a routine check-in, the Romeikes were informed by the federal government that their status as legal residents of the United States was being revoked, and that they were required to return to Germany.
The Twelve Tribes is one religious group that insists on home schooling and has been in conflict with authorities.
On September 5, 2013, German police raided two communities and removed 40 children to protect them from supposed continued abuse.
An investigative TV report had documented systematic child abuse in a 100-strong community in Bavaria, including "persistent beatings for the most trivial offences".
A few days later, German media reported about the disappearance of about ten school-aged children from the small town of Dolchau.
Probably they had been brought to a farm belonging to the Twelve Tribes in the Czech Republic to elude intervention by the authorities who would ensure their public schooling.
In 2002 there were several police raids against the Twelve Tribes, which do not want to send their children to school.
The children were taken away from the sect, which was legitimated in 2018 by the European Court of Human Rights.
There is no general exemption for religious or pedagogical reasons; exemptions are allowed for severe illness, children of diplomats, and rarely for working children such as actors.
The last petition in the Bundestag to release the punishment of adults who practice homeschooling was denied.


Greece
Status: Illegal
Compulsory education for children from 6 to 15 years old, with 6 years of primary school and 3 years of secondary school education.
Homeschooling is only allowed for children with special needs.


Hungary
Status: Heavy Regulated
Homeschooling is legal under certain conditions.
There is a compulsory education for children from 3 to 16 years.
Mostly, children are homeschooled due to illness or other special circumstances.
Homeschooled children have to be tested at least twice a year.


Iceland
Status: Regulated
Homeschooling is legal only if the home teacher has a teaching degree.


Republic of Ireland
Status: Legal
From 2004 to 2006, 225 children had been officially registered with the Republic of Ireland's National Education Welfare Board, which estimated there may be as many as 1500–2000 more unregistered homeschooled students.
The right to a home education is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ireland.


Italy
Status: Regulated
In Italy, homeschooling is legal.
It is called "Istruzione Parentale" which is the legal and formal term.
"Educazione parentale" and "Istruzione Famigliare" are used by two different advocacy organizations.
Most commonly, parents involved in the practise informally call it "homeschooling".
The legal status of the practice draws on the Constitution which states: "It is the duty and right of parents to support, raise and educate their children, even if born out of wedlock.
In the case of incapacity of the parents, the law provides for the fulfilment of their duties" (art.
30).

Further regulations have required the mandatory annual notification to the authorities and the annual parents' self-certification of technical and economic capacity to teach their children (legislative decree 297/1994).
Moreover, children are required to pass annual exams which are non-standardized assessments (legislative decree 62/2017 and ministerial decree 8 February 2021).


Netherlands

Status: Generally illegal
In the Netherlands, homeschooling is not a recognized form of education and every child is subject to compulsory education from his/her fifth birthday, with exemptions:

the child is physically or mentally unfit for school education (9726 children in 2023–2024),
the parents have reservations about the religious or philosophical direction of education in all schools with appropriate education at a reasonable distance from the home (2475 children in 2023–2024),
the child is enrolled in and regularly visits a foreign school (9080 children in 2023–2024)
Many in the first group and all in the second group are home schooled.
Until 1969 homeschooling was a recognized form of education.


Norway
Status: Regulated
Homeschooling is legal.
The municipality is responsible for checking that the homeschooling's curriculum is "equal to" public schooling, but the wording of the law is vague and does not prescribe how this is supposed to be done.
Hence, every municipality does things differently: some municipalities assist the parents by providing funding for educational materials, while other municipalities make it a child protection issue.


Poland
Status: De jure heavily regulated, de facto  poorly regulated
Homeschooling is de jure only allowed on highly regulated terms.
De facto it is increasingly a popular option.
Every child must be enrolled in a school (the school does not need to be a public school).
The school principal may, but is not obliged to, allow of homeschooling a particular child.
Usually the permission is just a formality and it is fairly easy to receive it.
Homeschooled children are required to pass annual exams covering material in school curriculum, and failure on an exam automatically terminates the homeschooling permit.
Even though it may seem difficult to homeschool in Poland, parents can choose a "homeschool friendly" school", where both children and parents can get support, where different trips or meetings for homeschooled students can be organized.
As of February 2024, 54 936 children were homeschooled in Poland (up from 10 976 in the 2019–20 school year), according to Poland's Ministry of Education.


Portugal
Status: Legal
Homeschooling is legal.
However, not many people choose the option of homeschooling, mostly because of not knowing about the choice.


Romania
Status: Legal
Homeschooling is legal since 2002, after it was included in the Romanian Educational Law at the request of the Romanian Home-Schooling Association.
The compulsory education age is between 6–16 years.


Russia
Status: Regulated
There are at least two forms of education that look like homeschooling.
With "family education", homeschooled students are attached to a state-licensed school where they are allowed to participate in laboratory work and extracurricular activities, may use teacher support and the school library and do tests and exams in every subject.
The local authorities are obliged to pay the parents some money, but no specific requirements exist.
The formal, usually annual, interim examinations (Промежуточная Аттестация), even the online ones, are mandatory at least in the 4th and 9th grades.
Many children finish a 9-year curriculum in less than 3 years.
There is also a hybrid form of education, when the child can attend the classes of his choice and the rest of the subjects study on his own with school frequency not being compulsory and with full access to all the activities other can and with parents receiving free school books and with scholar tests (in the end of a cycle) being paid by national government.


Slovenia
Status: Legal
Home education (called izobraževanje na domu in Slovene) is legal in Slovenia since 1996.
The law regarding home education has not been changed since then.
It is almost identical to Montenegrin model of home education.
According to Slovenian Ministry of Education it was based on Danish model of home education.
The compulsory school-age starts at 6 and lasts for 9 years (page 18 (8666), article 45).
The child being home educated is required to enroll into a local school (public or private) and pass annual exam in certain subjects (mother tongue and math only in lower grades; with addition of foreign language in middle grades and more subjects in higher grades, Page 22(8670) Article 90).
If the child does not pass all the exams in two attempts, it is ordered to continue the education with regular school attendance.
Every year the parents have to notify the school before starting new school year that they will be home educating their child.
There are no special requirements for parents wanting to home educate their children.
Parents are not eligible for any kind of state help nor are schools required to provide any kind of assistance.
The schools are free to choose (they often do) whether they will allow special arrangements with home educated children (flexi-schooling, the use of school resources, participation in field trips and other school activities, etc.).
The Ministry of Education and schools are not required to provide any form of help to parents of home educated children (teacher guides, worksheets, consultation, etc.).
In the school year 2010/2011, 97 children have been home educated.
As of July 2011 there are no organised home education groups in Slovenia.


Slovakia
Status: Heavily regulated
Homeschooling is legal in Slovakia.
However, a child's tutor is required to have a degree with a major in primary school education, and homeschooling is restricted only to the first four years of primary education.
Since 2021 is legal for 9 grades.


Spain
Status: Illegal
In Spain homeschooling is in somewhat of a legal vacuum.
On the one hand the Spanish Constitution, in Article 27, talks of compulsive education (not schooling), the freedom of teaching and the right of parents to choose their children's education in accordance with their own personal, moral and religious convictions.
On the other hand, Spanish education law speaks of compulsive school attendance for all children between the ages of 6 and 16.
(Sec.
4.2 Organic Law on Education 2/2006, of 3 May).
In 2010 a family went in front of the Spanish Constitutional Court to argue that the Spanish education laws are not in accordance with the parental rights granted by the Constitution and are therefore unlawful.
The decision made by the Constitutional Court made it clear that current education laws were in fact lawful interpretations of the Constitution with the result that since 2010 effectively school attendance is considered mandatory in Spain for all children from 6 to 16 (STC 133/2010, of 2 December).
However, the Constitutional Court also made it clear that the Constitution indeed only talks of compulsive education and that a change in the law to make homeschooling a legal alternative to regular school attendance would be a possible and lawful option for the future.
In 2009 the regional government of Catalonia amended its education law so that now according to article 55 "education without attendance to school" is a viable option.
However, as a regional law, it is unable to contradict the education law passed by the national parliament.
Hence, the newly amended Catalan law can only refer to pupils who have special needs or are for some other reason unable attend school regularly in order that they may have their educational rights met.
(Sec.
3.9 Organic Law on Education 2/2006).


Sweden
Status: Virtually illegal
In Sweden, children are obligated to attend school from the age of 6.
In 2010 Sweden passed a law (SFS 2010:800) that added further restrictions on homeschooling to an earlier law which was passed in 1985.
Homeschooling is only allowed for certain specific reasons such as for children of parents working temporarily in the country.
Homeschooling will not be approved based on religious beliefs or philosophical reasons, nor is there an automatic approval if the parent has had teacher training.
Recent court cases have supported these restrictions on parents.


Switzerland
Status: Legal, restricted in some cantons and forbidden in others.
Homeschooling is legal in Switzerland.
Requirements vary from canton to canton.
In the Cantons Luzern, Zug, Schwyz and Zürich the teachers must have a Lehrdiplom (teaching diploma), in Cantons Bern, Aargau, Geneva, Neuchatel and Vaud this is not required.
In Canton Obwalden homeschooling has to be allowed by the administration.
The Bundesgericht decided in 2019 that there is no right for homeschooling based on the Swiss law.
In 2011 approximately 200 – 500 families currently homeschool, in 2023 a study found 4136 children (0.3% of all pupils) where learning in homeschools.


Ukraine
Status: Heavily regulated
The Home School Legal Defense Association claims that homeschooling is legal and expressly allowed for by Articles 59 and 60 of Ukraine's Education Law, but local authorities do not always agree.
Homeschooling is mentioned swiftly in The Law of Ukraine on Education, article 59:

Parents and persons who substitute them shall be obliged to assist children to get education in educational institutions or provide them with full-value home education in accordance with the requirements to its content, level and scope.

In 2019 a law came into force, which liberalized the education system.
Before the law, to receive home education, children had to demonstrate that they cannot visit school due to medical condition or disability.
That restriction is now lifted.
Ukrainian education system remains very restrictive though.
Curriculum must be authorized by the school appointed supervisor.
To receive home education, children have to register with a school and to undergo assessments by the school up to 4 times a year.
In case an assessment fails, the child loses the privilege of home education.


United Kingdom

Status: Officially legal (England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland have their own education laws each with variations regarding home education.)
Home education is legal in the United Kingdom.
Parents are legally required to ensure that their children receive "efficient full-time education suitable to [their] age, ability and aptitude, and...
to any special educational needs [they] may have, either by regular attendance at school or otherwise." Parents are not required to inform local authorities that they are home educating.
A report commissioned by the UK government in 2009 found that councils were aware of approximately 20,000 children being home educated, but that the true number could be in excess of 80,000.
A study by the BBC in 2018 found that councils were aware of 48,000 children who were being home educated in 2016/7.
The Department for Education estimated 97,000 children were home educated in the summer of 2023, an increase of 11,000 on the previous year.


Oceania


Australia

Status: Legal
Homeschooling is relatively popular and enjoys a good reputation in Australia.
It is legal in every state and territory.
Around 30,000 children in Australia are homeschooled, including students who take distance education.


New Zealand

Status: Legal
As of July 2011 there were 6,517 homeschooled pupils registered with the Ministry of Education.
It is an increase of 23.6% since 1998.
As at 1 July 2013, there were 5,521 home schooled students recorded in the Ministry of Education's homeschooling database.
These students belong to 2,789 families and represent 0.7% of total school enrolments as at 1 July 2013.
Out of the 5,521 homeschooled students 65% were the aged 12 or under, 66% had been home-schooled for less than 5 years, and only 4% had been home-schooled for 10 years or more.


See also
Home School Legal Defense Association
Schoolhouse Home Education Association


References

Harold Leslie Edwards
Harold Leslie Edwards DFC MM (28 April 1893 – 15 June 1951) was a Canadian World War I flying ace gunner, who in conjunction with his pilots, was officially credited with 21 victories.


Early life
Edwards was the son of Joseph Harold Edwards and Ellen Keays; he was born in Franktown, Ontario on 28 April 1893.
When he enlisted in the 130th Battalion, CEF on 16 December 1915 at Perth, Ontario, he was five feet eleven inches tall, weighed 168 pounds, and was swarthy with dark blue eyes.
He gave his profession as chauffeur and auto mechanic.
As was customary for Canadians in those days, he swore allegiance to the King of England, and contracted to serve for the duration of the war.


Infantry career
He embarked to England on the troopship SS Lapland, arriving in October 1916, and serving with the 38th Battln.
CEF and received a field promotion to corporal in November 1916, before being wounded on 8 April 1917.
Edwards was transferred to No 3 Canadian General Hospital in Boulogne with what was  reported as shrapnel or gunshot wounds to the leg and shoulder.
 He was evacuated to England and taken on strength at the Endell Street Military Hospital, Seaforth on 12 April 1917.
Edwards was then transferred to the Canadian Convalescent Hospital at Bromley, Kent.
He was awarded the Military Medal on 26 May 1917.


Aviation career
Discharged from the CEF in June 1918, Edwards enlisted in the RAF.
He was promoted to 2nd Lieutenant as an observer and joined No.
20 Squadron on 28 July 1918, flying in Bristol F.2 Fighters.
Pilots Edwards flew in action with include aces Paul Iaccaci and Captain Horace Percy Lale, Lt.
William McKenzie Thomson, and Capt.
Geoffrey Hooper.
He was wounded in the lung on 21 October 1918 and returned to Canada on the S.S.
Minnedosa in January 1919 and spent considerable time in St.
Andrews Military Hospital in Toronto.
Of his total 21 claims, 19 were in one month (September 1918).
He was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross.
His war time tally consisted of 18 enemy Fokker D.VII airplanes destroyed (including one shared victory), and 3 more Fokkers driven down out of control.


Postwar
Edwards went on the unemployed list of the RAF effective 1 June 1919.
After the war, Edwards became a car salesman.
He lived in the Toronto area for the rest of his life and died in 1951.
He is buried in Franktown.


Text of citations


Distinguished Flying Cross
"2nd Lieut.
Harold Edwards.
(FRANCE)
When on offensive patrol, during 16 September, this officer with nine other machines, engaged twelve enemy scouts.
In the combat that ensued he destroyed one, his pilot accounting for a second, and they took part in destroying a third.
In all 2nd Lieutenant Edwards has accounted for nine enemy machines, setting an excellent example of gallantry worthy of high praise."


Military Medal
For conspicuous gallantry on early morning of 26 March 1917 near SOUCHEZ.
The enemy blew a camouflet at 5.20 a.m.
and broke into one of our Mining Shafts.
The force of the explosion burst in the sides of a dug-out near one of the Mine Galleries.
Twenty men were in the dug-out when the explosion occurred.
Three of these managed to make their way out but the remainder were unable to gain the surface.
About a dozen men were standing in the trench near the dug-out entrance, amongst whom were CPL.
RAINFORD, SGT.
BRISCOE, PTES.
EDWARDS and CAREY.
These men, without consideration of their own safety, and also having seen the gas flame rush from the mouth of the dug-out, singeing the hair and burning the faces of some, entered the dug-out and succeeded in bringing 10 men to the surface.
 The remaining seven men were found to be killed.
 These men assisted in the work of resuscitation of those overcome by gas.
The men rescued were badly burned and gassed and must have been overcome by fumes but for the prompt and gallant action of these men.
 Some of the rescuers themselves were badly affected by the gas.
 These four men have been selected from the rescuers as being those who rendered the best services.
Their prompt and gallant action undoubtedly saved the loss of 10 of their comrades and it is considered that they are fully deserving of an Immediate Reward.
(A.F.B.
3121.
April 18, 1917).
There exists some confusion regarding the awarding of the Military Medal to this man.
 The action cited on his Medal Card for the action on March 26, 1917, refers to him as Private Edwards though he had been a corporal since November 23, 1916.
A publication of Kingswood House in Dulwich, which was leased by Massey-Harris for convalescing Canadian soldiers, the Kingswood Bulletin, cites the following action:

More Honours For Kingswood Men One of the most interesting items in the programme at our Empire Day fete, was the presentation of Medals won for distinguished conduct at the Front, by three of our patients.
The Distinguished Conduct Medal was awarded to 107065, Private T.
N.
Armit, of the 2nd C.M.R.’s, and the Military Medal to 787002, Corporal H.
L.
Edwards, of the 38th Battalion, and to 18421, Lance-Corporal V.
Eryl, of the 52nd Battalion.
Mrs.
Raynolds, on pinning the coveted medals on the men’s breasts, in a few well-chosen words, expressed the pride and pleasure which all those connected with Kingswood experienced in having such brave men in the Home, and in hearing of their noble deeds.
Needless to say, the three heroes of the day were very heartily cheered by their comrades.
The brave deed which merited even a higher distinction for Corporal Edwards, is worthy of mention.
During the desperate fighting at Vimy Ridge on the memorable ninth of April, the advance of his company was held up by a well-handled machine-gun and its crew of six Germans.
The gun and its crew were well sheltered in a large shell crater, protected in front by barbed wire entanglements.
Five separate attempts to advance in front and capture the gun were made by parties of volunteers, two at a time, but they fell one by one.
Corporal Edwards and a comrade then worked their way round the flank, taking cover over the uneven shell-pitted ground, took the Germans by surprise, disposed of five by rifle, bayonet and revolver, and carried back the gun and the remaining German as a prisoner.
Corporal Edwards and his comrade immediately made good use of the captured machine gun against other bodies of German troops.
Corporal Edwards hails from Smiths’ Falls, his father is Major Edwards of the 240th Battalion, and his uncle is a Captain in the same Battalion.
He also has a brother a Sergeant in the Canadian Army—truly a fine family record.
—From report of Resident Secretary.


DFC citation
Whilst on Offensive Patrol with 9 Bristol Fighters, 12 Fokker Bi-planes were attacked on the same level over ST.QUENTIN.
 About 8 more E.A.
joined the fight from above.
 These however were attacked by a formation of Dolphins which was above the E.A.
 A dog fight ensued, which ended in all the E.A.
being either brought down or driven away.
The Leader of the Bristol Fighter formation, Machine No.
E2154 (Pilot – Lt.Thomson.
 Observer – 2/Lt.Edwards) dived on 1 E.A.
firing about 100 rounds at close range.
 This E.A.
suddenly spun slowly down and crashed in some trenches N.E.
of ST.QUENTIN.
 Lt.Thomson then saw another E.A.
falling past him, obviously out of control, and, diving on it, fired about 100 rounds at point blank range.
This E.A.
had been attacked by Machine No.
C951 (Pilot – Lt.Strachan.
 Observer 2/Lt.Calderwood) who started it in its spin and eventually saw it crash N.W.
of ST.QUENTIN.
2/Lt/Edwards (observer in Machine No.E2154, Pilot – Lt.Thomson) fired about 200 rounds with double guns at an E.A.
which was diving on a Bristol Fighter on his right.
 The E.A.
fell over and over and hit the ground near ST.QUENTIN.
 This is confirmed by Lt.Boulton, Pilot in Machine No.
E2493.
Lt.Iaccaci, DFC.
And Sergt.Howland, DFM., in Machine No.E2213 found themselves under a Fokker Bi-plane and the Observer fired nearly a whole drum at it.
Lt.H.E.Johnston and 2/Lt.E.S.Harvey in Machine No.C4718 were attacked by an E.A.
from below.
 Lt.Harvey fired two bursts at this E.A.
which spun slowly down but was not watched all the way.
 This is confirmed by Lt.Iaccaci (sub-leader of Lt.Johnston’s formation).
Machine C951 (Pilot – Lt.Strachan, Observer –2/Lt.Calderwood) was attacked by five E.A.
on the same level, three of which were engaged by the Observer, who put about 100 rounds into one, at 150 yards range; this E.A turned off and dived down, leaving a heavy trail of black smoke and eventually crashed near OMISSY.
 A second E.A.
was sent down in a slow spin over ST.QUENTIN, but could not be watched to the ground.
 The remainder of the E.A.
broke off the fight.
The leader of Patrol in E2154 (Pilot – Lt.Thomson, Observer – 2/Lt.Edwards) was attacked from below and from the side and the Observer got in about 100 rounds at 50 yards range at one trying to get under the tail.
 This E.A.
went down out of control and was seen to crash near OMISSY.
 Another E.A.
was driven down out of control by the Pilot, but could not be watched to the ground.
(Signed) W.M.Thomson.
  Lieut.
(Signed) H.L.Edwards.
  2nd/Lieut.


References


Bibliography
Franks, Norman L.
R.; Guest, Russell; Alegi, Gregory (1997).
Above the War Fronts: The British Two-seater Bomber Pilot and Observer Aces, the British Two-seater Fighter Observer Aces, and the Belgian, Italian, Austro-Hungarian and Russian Fighter Aces, 1914-1918.
Grub Street.
ISBN 1-898697-56-6.


External links
WWI Aces of Canada:Harold Edwards

Biman B. Nath
Biman B.
Nath (born 1964) is an educator, scientist, cosmologist, astrophysicist, and bilingual author from Bangalore, India.
He writes in English and Bengali (fiction and non-fiction).
He is currently a professor in Astronomy and Astrophysics at Raman Research Institute, Bangalore, India.
His 2022 book Homi J Bhabha sheds light on the rich scientific legacy of Homi J Bhabha and his vision for India.
Asian Age described the book as an authentic biography of a scientific pioneer.
 


Early life
Biman Nath was born in Assam to Binode Bihari Nath and Sabita Nath.
He attended Narsing H S School and Gurucharan College in Silchar, then received his bachelor's degree in physics from Delhi University's Kirori Mal College, followed by a doctorate in astronomy from the University of Maryland, College Park in 1992.



Career
Nath was a postdoctoral fellow at the Max Planck Institute for Radio Astronomy in Germany, then at the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics India.
He was a visiting professor at the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics, University of Colorado in 2004.
He joined the Raman Research Institute in 1997.
 He has received the Vikram Sarabhai research award for space science in 2005.
He has authored and co-authored more than 120 research papers.
He is an active member of the International Astronomical Unit.
He is often invited to deliver talks on research and development in astrophysics and astronomy.
 He also wrote columns for national papers such as Indian Express,  The Hindu,  and other newspapers.


Books
He has authored several books (fiction and non-fiction), including the following: 

Mohabishwer Prothom Aalo (First light in the Universe), Book in Bengali, 2002, Anustup (Kolkata, India).
Dawn of the Universe (Universities Press (India), 2005) (A review of his book ‘Dawn of the Universe’ published in Resonance.
Nokkhotrer gaan (Song of stars), Book in Bengali, 2006, Ananda Publishers (Kolkata, India).A review of his book ‘Nakkhotrer Gan’ (Bengali) published in the Guruchandali (in Bengali).
Eyes on the sky: The story of telescope, Vigyan Prasar, 2010
The story of helium and the birth of astrophysics, Springer (US), 2013.
A review of his book ‘The story of helium and the birth of astrophysics’ published in the Journal of Astronomy History and Heritage (2013: November issue)
Homi J Bhabha: A renaissance man among scientists, Niyogi Books (New Delhi), 2022
Nokkhotrer sathe kotha koy prithibir pran (Stars and life on Earth), Book in Bengali, 2022, Sahitya Samsad (Kolkata)
Solar system in verse, Niyogi Books (New Delhi) , 2022 (February, 2023)
Ashanto Mahabishwo (The violent universe), Book in Bengali, 2023, Sahitya Samsad (Kolkata)
Bishmoye tai jaage (translations of articles and letters by Rachel Carson), Book in Bengali, 2024, Nirjhar (Kolkata).
A review of his book ‘Bishmoye tai jaage’ (Bengali) published in Sangbad Pratidin (in Bengali)
Nothing is Blue (HarperCollins India, 2009)
The Tattooed Fakir (Pan Macmillan 2014)


Awards
Rabindra Puraskar for his work Mohabishwer Prothom Aalo (Science) (2005).
Vikram Sarabhai Research Award for Space Science in 2005 (awarded by Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad.
Indira Gandhi Prize (for popularization of science) shared along with BN DWivedi - Awarded by Indian National Science Academy.
2000 Humboldt Research Fellow, Alexander Von Humboldt Foundation.
JILA Visiting Fellow (Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics), Colorado, USA, 2004-2005.


References


External links
Biman B.
Nath publications indexed by Google Scholar

Mike Elko
Michael Elko (born July 28, 1977) is an American college football coach who is the head football coach at Texas A&M University, a position he has held since 2024.
He was previously the head coach at Duke for the 2022 and 2023 seasons and the defensive coordinator at Texas A&M from 2018 to 2021.


Early life
Raised in South Brunswick, New Jersey, Elko graduated in 1995 from South Brunswick High School, where he played baseball, basketball and was the quarterback for the school's football team.
He was recognized by the coaches of the Greater Middlesex Conference as the league's top quarterback in 1994 and was inducted into the school's athletic hall of fame in 2012.
He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania, where he played for the Penn Quakers football team that won the Ivy league championship in 1998.


Coaching career


Early career
Elko coached under Dave Clawson for 12 seasons.
He spent two seasons with Clawson at both Fordham and Richmond, five seasons with him at Bowling Green,  and three seasons with Clawson at Wake Forest.
During the 2016 season, Elko's Wake Forest defense ranked in the top 20 for NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) in defensive touchdowns scored, turnovers, red zone defense, sacks, and scoring defense.



Notre Dame
On December 20, 2016, Elko was announced as the new defensive coordinator at Notre Dame Fighting Irish football The Fighting Irish fired DC Brian VanGorder the prior September after Notre Dame started the season with a 1–3 record and a defense ranked third from the bottom of the FBS.


Texas A&M (defensive coordinator)
On January 4, 2018, Elko was hired by Jimbo Fisher as the defensive coordinator at Texas A&M inking a three-year deal averaging $1.8M/year.


Duke
On December 13, 2021, Elko was announced as head coach at Duke.
In his first season, the Blue Devils went 9–4 with a win in the Military Bowl.
In 2023, Duke began the season with an upset 28–7 win over Clemson, and finished the regular season 7–5.


Texas A&M (head coach)


2024 season
On November 27, 2023, Elko was named head coach at Texas A&M University.
In his first season, Elko led the Aggies to a 5-0 starting conference record—the Aggies' best start in SEC conference play.
Elko also oversaw the revival of the Lone Star Showdown at Kyle Field, which was the first time the Texas–Texas A&M football rivalry had been played in 13 years.
The Aggies went 1-4 in their final five games and finished the season 8–5, including a 43-41 four-overtime loss to Auburn and a loss in the Las Vegas Bowl.
2025 Season
As of Week 10, Elko has led the Aggies to an 9-0 record so far—their first time doing such since 1992.
Additionally, the Aggies were ranked third in the most recent Associated Press Top 25 poll, their highest ranking in 30 years.


Head coaching record


References


External links
Texas A&M profile
Duke profile
Coaching statistics at Sports Reference

Kavkaz
Kavkaz (Russian: Кавказ) may refer to:

Caucasus, region for which Kavkaz is a local or historic name in several countries
Port Kavkaz, a ferry port at Taman peninsula
Port Kavkaz railway station, in Krasnodar Krai, Russia
Kavkaz Center, a Chechen internet news agency
"Kavkaz" ("Caucasus"), codename of a series of Russian military exercises


See also
Tour of Kavkaz, a cycling race held annually in Russia
Uralo-Kavkaz, an urban-type settlement in Krasnodon Municipality, Luhansk Oblast, Ukraine

Lokavibhaga
The Lokavibhāga (literally "division of the universe") is a 5th-century Sanskrit text by Rishi Simhasuri.
Its manuscript was first discovered in an Indian temple of Karnataka by M.R.R.
Narasimhachar.
The Lokavibhaga consists of 11 chapters and a total of 1737 verses (shlokas) distributed over these chapters.
The text has an incomplete colophon, which states it was completed in a village named Patalika near Kanchi (Tamil Nadu) in the 22nd year of Simhavarman's rule in Banarastra.
The colophon includes astronomical observations along with a samvat date and year which together confirm the text was published by Rishi Simhasuri on 25 August 458 CE.
The Lokavibhaga is notable as the oldest known text in the world that clearly uses three principles of positional decimal arithmetic system together – graphical signs and terms as numerals, assigning a value to the same numeral depending on the position it occupies in a number, and the use of fully operational zero.
This Indian system contrasted with competing ancient arithmetic systems developed independently in Babylon, ancient Rome and China.
The text presents Jain cosmology.
It has been claimed by the Digambara tradition of Jainism to be a Sanskrit translation of an older Prakrit-language text Loyavibhaga by Muni Sarvanandi.
The Lokavibhaga mentions Sarvanandi and others, but does not mention any text called "Loyavibhaga".
No manuscript copy of the claimed older Prakrit "Loyavibhaga" has been found so far.

The Lokavibhaga presents its cosmological ideas in a form that takes its mathematical system for granted.
It is not a mathematical treatise, and it does not introduce principles of positional decimal arithmetic system.
The arithmetic system used in Lokavibhaga text, state Jain and Dani, must have been invented earlier by someone else in some other context.
That system of expressing numbers with positional decimal arithmetic was accepted and must have been in wide use in India by mid 5th-century to appear as it does in the Lokavibhaga text.
The same Indian arithmetic system and operations appears in the mathematical treatise of Aryabhata published in 510 CE.
The surviving manuscripts of the Lokavibhāga are listed in the New Catalogus Catalogorum.
The published edition of the surviving Lokvibhaga manuscript is a palm leaf copy of the original Sanskrit text, likely from 11th or 12th century.
The text was edited and translated in 1962 into the Hindi language by Balachandra Siddhanta-Shastri.


References

Emil Genetz
Karl Emil Moritz Genetz (October 24, 1852 – May 1, 1930) was a Finnish composer of patriotic choral works.
Genetz was born in Impilahti, Grand Duchy of Finland, Russian Empire (now in the Republic of Karelia).
He became professionally employed as a language teacher, but gained prominence for his choral compositions.
After studying chemistry and law at the University of Helsinki, he became a singer in the Finnish Opera, and traveled on a state grant to study at the Dresden Conservatory from 1875 to 1877.
He spent time in various cities of Finland, including Hämeenlinna, Helsinki, and Hamina, working as a German language teacher, composing patriotic works, and conducting choirs.
He died in Helsinki in 1930.
Many of his works are still well known in modern Finland.
James Fuld in his The Book of World-Famous Music points out that the first two measures of Genetz' Herää Suomi!
(Arise Finland!) for male chorus, published in 1882, are almost identical with the main tune of Jean Sibelius' Finlandia of 1900, during which time the Grand Duchy of Finland was part of the Russian Empire, which makes one consider how blatantly revolutionary against the Czarist regime Sibelius' wordless orchestral piece was.


References
Ruth-Esther Hillila and Barbara Blanchard Hong, ed.
(1997).
"Genetz, Emil".
Historical Dictionary of the Music and Musicians of Finland.
Greenwood Press.
p.
99.
ISBN 0-313-27728-1.

Frank Cicutto
Francis John Cicutto (1950 – 10 January 2025) was an Italian-born Australian business executive and banker.
He was chief executive officer of National Australia Bank (NAB) between 1999 and 2004.


Early life
Cicutto was born in 1950 in Spilimbergo, Italy.
At the age of 2, his family migrated to Australia during the post-war migration wave from Europe, eventually settling in Leichhardt, New South Wales in the Inner West of Sydney.
Cicutto was educated at Benilde High School, Bankstown and St John's College, Lakemba.
He studied for a Bachelor of Commerce at the University of New South Wales.
Cicutto played Sydney Grade Cricket for the Bankstown District Cricket Club and was club secretary from 1972 to 1975.
He later moved to Melbourne, where he coached for the Ringwood Cricket Club in Ringwood, Victoria.


Career
Cicutto joined the National Australia Bank in 1967 as a 17-year-old and was employed by NAB for 37 years, leaving as chief executive officer in 2004.
He held multiple executive positions in the company, including executive vice president for the Americas in 1988, chief executive officer of Clydesdale Bank from 1994 to 1996 and as chief general manager for Australian financial services from 1996 to 1998.
In 1998, Cicutto was appointed to the board of directors as chief operating officer, before being elected chief executive officer the following year.
He resigned from National Australia Bank in 2004, amid the controversial foreign currency trading scandal, which involved losses of A$360 million covered up by NAB options traders.
Cicutto was the chair of the Australian Bankers' Association from 1999 to 2001.
He also chaired property management company Run Corp from 2005 to 2007, with his resignation resulting from the company having experienced heavy losses during the tenure.


Personal life and death
Cicutto lived in Canterbury in Melbourne, Victoria.
He died on 10 January 2025, following an illness.


References


External links
Frank Cicutto at IMDb

Hussein Hajj Hassan
Hussein Hajj Hassan (Arabic: حسين الحاج حسن; born 1960) is a Lebanese politician from Hezbollah, founder of the Islamic Union of Lebanese Students in France and minister of industry.
He was the head of Hezbollah's "Educational mobilization" unit.
As agricultural ministry he signed a cooperative agreement Jihad al-Binaa to provide agricultural vocation.
He is said to have focused his ministry's funds to Hezbollah constituencies.


Early life and education
Hajj Hassan was born into a Shia family in Nabi Chit in the Beqaa Valley in 1960.
He holds a PhD in Chemistry and Natural Physics, which he received from the University of Orléans, France in 1987.
 He founded the Islamic Union of Lebanese Students in France.
He worked as a professor in the science faculty of Lebanese University.
 He took part in the founding of the Hezbollah think tank: The Consultative Center for Documentation and Studies.
He was the head of Hezbollah's "Educational mobilization" unit in 1991.


Political career and views
Hajj Hassan is a member of the Lebanese Shia party Hezbollah.
He ran on the latter's electoral list in Lebanon's 1996 general election and was elected MP of the Beqaa's Baalbeck/Hermel constituency.
In May 1998, he argued that although Islamic state is an ideal solution, Hezbollah is aware of its inapplicability in Lebanon.
In 2000 he was the head of the Lebanese Agriculture and Tourism committee.
He was reelected in the 2000, 2005 and 2009 polls.
In 2009, he was among Hezbollah's 11 members of parliament.
In June 2009, he met with the then European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana in Beirut, representing Hezbollah.
From 2000 to 2005 he led the parliamentary commission on agriculture and tourism.
He is part of the "Loyalty to the Resistance", an opposition parliamentary bloc.
He was named on 9 November 2009 minister of agriculture in Saad Hariri's national unity government.
In January 2011, he and other two ministers, Gebran Bassil and Mohamad Jawad Khalifeh, resigned from the cabinet, leading to the collapse of Hariri government.
He was appointed to Najib Mikati's cabinet again as a minister of agriculture in June 2011.
As minister he signed a cooperative agreement with Jihad al-Binaa, in order to provide agricultural vocation.
This move was criticized as allowing Hezbollah to take credit through Jihad al-Binaa of government provided projects.
As minister for agriculture, he allegedely funelled funds and government funds "selectively" to Hezbollah constituencies.
In 2018 he was reelected to Lebanese parliament as representative of the Bekaa III (Baalbek/Al-Hermel) constituency.


Life
Hajj has 4 children and is married to Hayat Salhab.


References


See also
Lebanese government of November 2009
Members of the 2009-2013 Lebanese Parliament

Emma Frost (screenwriter)
Emma Frost is a British screenwriter and showrunner, known for her work in the television series Shameless.


Career
Frost began working on series such as The Queen's Nose, as well as  the BBC's popular continuing dramas: Doctors, and Casualty.
Frost wrote and consulted on multiple episodes of Shameless.
She has also written on The White Queen, Jamaica Inn,   The Man in the High Castle, and The White Princess.
Recently, she was co-showrunner and wrote for The Spanish Princess with Matthew Graham.
Her film work includes the BBC Four drama Consuming Passion: 100 Years of Mills & Boon and the screenplay to Zelda, a film in development by Ron Howard.
Frost was writer, showrunner and executive producer on an adapted series of Edith Wharton's The Age of Innocence for Netflix, which began filming in 2025.


Personal life
Frost is a trustee of the children's arts charity Anno's Africa.
She is based in Falmouth, Cornwall.


References


External links
Emma Frost at IMDb

2021 Ostrava Challenger – Doubles
Artem Sitak and Igor Zelenay were the defending champions but only Zelenay chose to defend his title, partnering Roman Jebavý.
Zelenay lost in the quarterfinals to Zdeněk Kolář and Lukáš Rosol.
Marc Polmans and Sergiy Stakhovsky won the title after defeating Andrew Paulson and Patrik Rikl 7–6(7–4), 3–6, [10–7] in the final.


Seeds


Draw
Key


References


External links
Main draw

The Best of Rainbow
The Best of Rainbow is the first compilation album from British hard rock group Rainbow, released in 1981.
This compilation album is slightly different from the similarly titled album from 1980, which was released only in Japan, and features mostly previously released studio cuts, taken from the five studio albums Rainbow had released at that point.
However, "Jealous Lover", the first song written by Blackmore and Turner, had been available only as a B-side in Europe (to "Can't Happen Here") and on the Jealous Lover EP in the United States.
The original vinyl-release was a 2-LP set, in a gatefold-sleeve which contained photos of the band during its various incarnations, and reached No.
14 in the UK Albums Chart in 1981.
As of 2019, this compilation album has never been released in the United States.
The photograph on the cover was taken at Zaanse Schans.


Track listing


Personnel
Ritchie Blackmore – guitars, bass on track 5
Ronnie James Dio – vocals: tracks 2, 5-8, 10, 11, 14, 16
Graham Bonnet – vocals: tracks 1, 3, 9, 12
Joe Lynn Turner - vocals: tracks 4, 13, 15
Micky Lee Soule – keyboards: tracks 2, 10, 11
Tony Carey – keyboards: tracks 6, 8, 16
David Stone – keyboards: tracks 7, 14
Don Airey – keyboards: tracks 1, 3, 4, 9, 12, 13, 15
Craig Gruber – bass: tracks 2, 10, 11
Jimmy Bain – bass: tracks 6, 8, 16
Bob Daisley – bass: tracks 7, 14
Roger Glover – bass: tracks 1, 3, 4, 9, 12, 13, 15
Gary Driscoll – drums: tracks 2, 10, 11
Cozy Powell – drums: tracks 1, 3, 5-9, 12, 14, 16
Bobby Rondinelli - drums: tracks 4, 13, 15
Roger Glover - producer: tracks 1, 3, 4, 9, 12, 13, 15
Blackmore/Birch/Dio - producers: tracks 2, 10, 11
Martin Birch - producer: tracks 5-8, 14, 16


Charts


Certifications


References


External links
The Best Of Rainbow at Discogs

GLT
GLT may refer to:


Arts and entertainment
Girls' Last Tour, a manga series by Tsukumizu


Transport
Bombardier Guided Light Transit technology
Gladstone Airport, Queensland, Australia
Glenrothes with Thornton railway station, Scotland
Great Lakes Transportation, an American company


Other uses
Glatfelter, an American paper manufacturer
Goal-line technology, in association football
Great Lakes Theater, Cleveland, Ohio, US
G-TELP Level Test, an English language test
"Good Loyal Thots", a song by Odetari from the EP XIII Sorrows, 2023

D. J. Woods
Derrick L.
Woods, Jr.
(born November 29, 1989) is an American former football wide receiver.
He played college football at the University of Cincinnati.
Professionally, he was a member of the Tennessee Titans, BC Lions, Chicago Rush, Ottawa Redblacks, and San Jose SaberCats.


Early life
Derrick L.
Woods, Jr.
was born on November 29, 1989.
He played high school football at Strongsville High School in Strongsville, Ohio as a wide receiver and defensive back.
He caught 35 passes for 750 yards and eight touchdowns his junior year.
He recorded 38 receptions as a senior in 2007 before missing the final five games of the season due to injury.
Wood garnered Associated Press second-team Division I All-Ohio recognition for the 2007 season.
Overall, he caught 153 passes for 1,797 yards and 18 touchdowns during his high school career while also returning five kickoffs for touchdowns and three punts for touchdowns.


College career
Woods played college football for the Cincinnati Bearcats of the University of Cincinnati from 2008 to 2011.
He played in all 14 games as a true freshman in 2008, catching 14 passes for 168 yards while also returning 12 punts for 113 yards.
He started 12 games for the Bearcats during the 2009 season, recording 51 receptions for 640 yards and four touchdowns.
As a junior in 2010, Woods totaled 57 catches for 898 yards and eight touchdowns, 32 kick returns for 728 yards, and 19 punt returns for 146 yards.
He was named second-team All-Big East for the 2010 season.
He caught 37 passes for 450 yards and two touchdowns his senior year in 2011 while also returning 11	punts for 71 yards.


Professional career
Woods signed with the Tennessee Titans of the National Football League (NFL) on May 3, 2012, after going undrafted in the 2012 NFL draft.
He was released on September 1, 2012.
Woods was signed to the practice roster of the BC Lions of the Canadian Football League (CFL) in October 2012.
Woods was assigned to the Chicago Rush of the Arena Football League (AFL) on May 16, 2013.
He recorded 19 catches for 232 yards and four touchdowns, five solo tackles, and one assisted tackle, for the Rush during the 2013 season.
He was placed on the suspended list on July 11, 2013.
Woods signed with the expansion Ottawa Redblacks of the CFL on February 13, 2014.
Woods was assigned to the San Jose Sabercats of the AFL on October 27, 2014.
He was placed on recallable reassignment on January 26, 2015.


References


External links
Stats Crew profile
College stats
NFL Draft Scout

Ugolino II Trinci
Ugolino II Trinci (also Ugolino Novello) (died 1353) was the lord of Foligno from 1343 until his death.
He was the son of Nallo I Trinci and succeeded his brother Corrado I in the lordship in 1343.
Ugolino was succeeded by his son Trincia.
His other sons Corrado and Rinaldo were later, respectively, lord of Foligno and bishop of Foligno.


References
(in Italian) History of Foligno

Donald M. Grant
Donald Metcalf Grant (April 3, 1927 – August 19, 2009) was an American book publisher.
He is best known for publishing in the fantasy, horror, and science-fiction genres.


Biography
Grant was born in Providence, Rhode Island in 1927 and graduated from the University of Rhode Island in 1949.
Grant's interest in fantasy and science fiction started when he began reading the stories of Edgar Rice Burroughs at age 10.
He married his wife Shirley in 1956 and they had two children.
Grant was involved in the founding of several science fiction and fantasy small press publishers.
He co-founded Grant-Hadley Enterprises in 1945, which became the Buffalo Book Company in 1946 with the addition of Ken Krueger.
Grant founded Grandon, Publishers in 1949 along with James J.
Donahue.
The name was that of a lead character in one of Otis Adelbert Kline's fantasy novels.
He formed Donald M.
Grant, Publisher, Inc.
in 1964.

Centaur Press was co-founded with Charles M.
Collins in the late 1960s.
The publishing house lasted until 1981.
It was primarily a paperback publisher, though one of its more successful titles was reissued in hardcover.
It was notable for reviving pulp adventure and fantasy works of the early twentieth century for its "Time-Lost Series." Centaur's output was small, generally on the order of one to three books a year.
Its publications featured thicker and less acidic paper than that utilized by most paperback houses.
Authors whose works were returned to print by Centaur Press include Robert E.
Howard, Alfred H.
Bill, Jean d'Esme, and William Hope Hodgson.
In the sole anthology it issued, the press also premiered a couple new works, one by Darrel Crombie and one by contemporary author Lin Carter.
In later years it also published longer works by contemporary authors, including Carter, Galad Elflandsson, and Robb Walsh.

Covers were created by artists such as Jeff Jones, Frank Brunner, David Ireland, and David Wenzel.
Grant died August 19, 2009 in North Port, Florida.


Awards
1976, World Fantasy Special Award: Professional
1979, Balrog Awards: professional achievement
1980, World Fantasy Special Award: Professional
1983, World Fantasy Special Award: Professional
1984, World Fantasy Convention Award
2003, World Fantasy Award for Life Achievement.


Bibliography
Act of Providence, with Joseph Payne Brennan (Donald M.
Grant, Publisher, 1979)


As editor
"333": A Bibliography of the Science-Fantasy Novel, by Joseph H.
Crawford, Jr.
(The Grandon Company, 1953)
Rhode Island on Lovecraft, with Thomas P.
Hadley (Grant-Hadley Enterprises, 1945)
Swordsmen and Supermen, edited anonymously (Centaur Press, 1971)
Virgil Finlay, (Donald M.
Grant, 1971)
Talbot Mundy:Messenger of Destiny (Donald M.
Grant, 1983)


Notes


References
Chalker, Jack L.; Mark Owings (1998).
The Science-Fantasy Publishers: A Bibliographic History, 1923–1998.
Westminster, MD and Baltimore: Mirage Press, Ltd.
Eshbach, Lloyd Arthur (1983).
Over My Shoulder: Reflections on a Science Fiction Era.
Philadelphia: Oswald Train.
OCLC 10489084.
Tuck, Donald H.
(1974).
The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction and Fantasy.
Chicago, IL: Advent.
p.
192.
ISBN 0-911682-20-1.

Pâmela Rosa
Pâmela Leite Rosa (born 19 July 1999) is a regular-footed professional Brazilian skateboarder from São José dos Campos.


Skateboarding
At the age of 20, Rosa has won 6 X Games medals, including two gold.
Rosa competed in the 2019 Street League Skateboarding Tour - London, placing first.
She represented Brazil at the 2020 Summer Olympics, and the 2024 Summer Olympics.
Rosa competed in the 2021 Street League Skateboarding Super Crown Final in Jacksonville, and placed first taking the position of "Top Female Street Skater" for the year.


References


External links
Pâmela Rosa at Olympedia 
Pâmela Rosa at Olympics.com 
Pâmela Rosa at the X Games (archive)
Pâmela Rosa on Instagram .

1902 Shaposhnikov
1902 Shaposhnikov (prov.
designation: 1972 HU) is a dark Hilda asteroid from the outermost region of the asteroid belt, approximately 92 kilometers in diameter.
It was discovered on 18 April 1972, by Russian astronomer Tamara Smirnova at the Crimean Astrophysical Observatory in Nauchnyj, on the Crimean peninsula.
The asteroid was named after Soviet astronomer and WWII casualty Vladimir Shaposhnikov.
It was one of the last larger asteroids discovered in the main belt.


Orbit and characteristics
Shaposhnikov belongs to the dynamic Hilda group.
Members of this group stay in a 3:2 orbital resonance with the gas giant Jupiter and are located in the outermost part of the asteroid belt.
Shaposhnikov is, however, not a member of the collisional Hilda family (001) but a non-family asteroid of the background population when applying the Hierarchical Clustering Method to its proper orbital elements.
It orbits the Sun at a distance of 3.1–4.8 AU once every 7 years and 11 months (2,884 days; semi-major axis of 3.97 AU).
Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.22 and an inclination of 12° with respect to the ecliptic.
The body's observation arc begins with its first observation as 1940 GK at Turku Observatory in April 1940, or 32 years prior to its official discovery observation at Nauchnyj.


Naming
This minor planet was named in honour of Vladimir Grigorevich Shaposhnikov (1905–1942), who worked at the Simeiz Observatory and was an expert in astrometry, before he was killed on the Eastern Front during the Second World War.
The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 20 February 1976 (M.P.C.
3936).


Physical characteristics
In the Tholen classification, Shaposhnikov is an X-type asteroid, which encompasses the E, M and P-types.
Since its albedo is known to be very low (see below), its spectral type has been refined to a primitive P-type asteroid.
In addition, it has been characterized as a D-type asteroid in the Bus–DeMeo taxonomy.


Rotation period and poles
Several rotational lightcurves of Shaposhnikov have been obtained from photometric observations since 1989.
Lightcurve analysis gave a consolidated rotation period of 21.2 hours with a brightness amplitude between 0.29 and 0.42 magnitude (U=2/2+/3).
Most asteroid have periods below 20 hours.
A 2016-published study also modeled Shaposhnikov's lightcurve using photometric data from various sources.
It gave a sidereal period of 20.9959 hours, as well as a spin axis in ecliptic coordinates (λ, β) of (326.0°, 37.0°) and (144.0°, 79.0°).


Diameter and albedo
According to the surveys carried out by the Infrared Astronomical Satellite IRAS, the Japanese Akari satellite and the NEOWISE mission of NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer, Shaposhnikov measures between 83.443 and 96.86 kilometers in diameter and its surface has a low albedo between 0.0296 and 0.04.
The Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link derives an albedo of 0.0385 and a diameter of 97.01 kilometers based on an absolute magnitude of 9.22.
Based on current diameter estimates, Shaposhnikov is the most recent discovered outer main-belt asteroid that is near the 100-kilometer diameter range.
The next larger asteroid, 1390 Abastumani (101 km) was already discovered in the 1930s, four decades earlier.


Notes
 


References
 


External links
Lightcurve Database Query (LCDB), at www.minorplanet.info
Dictionary of Minor Planet Names, Google books
Asteroids and comets rotation curves, CdR – Geneva Observatory, Raoul Behrend
Discovery Circumstances: Numbered Minor Planets (1)-(5000) – Minor Planet Center
1902 Shaposhnikov at AstDyS-2, Asteroids—Dynamic Site
Ephemeris · Observation prediction · Orbital info · Proper elements · Observational info
1902 Shaposhnikov at the JPL Small-Body Database

Mary G. Porter
Mary G.
"Polly" Porter  (March 1884 – 1972) was an American social worker and for more than 50 years the partner of Mary Dewson, feminist and political activist.
Porter was a close friend of Eleanor Roosevelt and part of her tight-knit circle of female friends.


Biography
Mary G.
Porter, born in March, 1884, was the daughter of William D.
Porter and Mabel G.
Porter.
Porter was independently wealthy and bred and raised Sheltie dogs at a kennel she owned in Georgetown, Connecticut.
In 1910, Porter attended the Boston School for Social Workers to study to become a social worker.
She began an internship at the Massachusetts State Industrial School for Girls under Mary Williams "Molly" Dewson, superintendent of parole, who became her lifelong partner.
When the internship ended, Porter remained at the school as a volunteer.
According to Dewson's biographer, Susan Ware, Porter was openly approved of by Dewson's mother.
In 1912, Dewson and Porter bought a house in Berlin, Massachusetts, and in 1913 moved to a dairy farm in Worcester, Massachusetts.
During World War I, both she and Dewson spent 15 months with the American Red Cross in France to aid war refugees.
In 1922, they moved to 171 West 12th Street; in the same building lived Marion Dickerman and Nancy Cook, Grace Hutchins and Anna Rochester.
Nearby, at 20 East 11th Street, lived Esther Lape and Elizabeth Fisher Read.
They were part of Roosevelt's support network of female friends.
For several years, Porter and Dewson split their time between New York City and a cottage at Castine, Maine, Moss Acre, the Porter family homeplace, built by Porter’s father in the 1895 as a seasonal home and refuge.
In 1952, they retired to Castine full-time.
Porter died in 1972, in Castine, and is buried in the local cemetery together with Dewson who had died 10 years earlier.


Legacy
During summer 2017, the Castine Historical Society held the exhibition "Castine’s Devoted Women: Partnership and Social Reform 1910-1962" focused on Mary W.
"Molly" Dewson and Mary G.
"Polly" Porter.


References


External links
Mary G.
Porter at Find a Grave

Saddle Mates
Saddle Mates is a 1928 American silent Western film directed by Richard Thorpe and starring Hal Taliaferro, Hank Bell and Peggy Montgomery.
Two partners seek revenge on the man who has cheated them out of their ranch.


Cast
Hal Taliaferro as John Benson
Hank Bell as Tim Mannick
J.
Gordon Russell as Morgan Shelby
Peggy Montgomery as Betty Shelby
Slim Whitaker as Bob Grice
Lafe McKee as Grouchy Ferris
Edward Cecil as George Lemmer
Lillian Allen as Mrs.
Saunders


References


Bibliography
Langman, Larry.
A Guide to Silent Westerns.
Greenwood Publishing Group, 1992.


External links
Saddle Mates at IMDb

Anne D. Yoder
Anne Daphne Yoder is an American biologist, researcher, and professor in the Department of Biology at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina, United States.
Yoder's work includes the study, preservation, and conservation of the multifarious biodiversity found in Madagascar.
One of her main research topics focuses on the diverse lemur population found on the island.
Specifically, Yoder's research concentrates on assorted geographic factors that lead to varying levels of biological differences in the speciation process.
Her investigations utilize genome research to further understand the complex and unique degree of speciation that occurs in lemur populations.
In 2023, she was elected to the National Academy of Sciences.


Biography
Anne Yoder was born in Charlotte, North Carolina.
Anne is the daughter of Pulitzer Prize winning American journalist Edwin Yoder and Mary Jane Yoder.
She is married to writer and artist, David Micheal Hart.


Education and career

Yoder received her B.A.
in zoology from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, in 1981.
Before receiving her doctorate, Anne worked at both the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History and the American Museum of Natural History, in the department of vertebrate zoology and department of mammalogy, respectively.
She went on to receive her Ph.D.
in biology from Duke University in 1992.
For the next three years, Anne was a Postdoctoral Fellow in the environmental biology program at Harvard University.
From 1996–2001, Yoder was an associate professor at Northwestern University.
She went on to be an associate professor at Yale University from 2001–2005.
During her time at Yale, Yoder also became the associate curator of mammals at the Peabody Museum of Natural History.
 In 2005, Yoder became a professor of biology in the Trinity College of Arts and Science at Duke University.
In 2006, she went on to become the director of the Duke Lemur Center, whose facility houses 18 different species of lemurs and over 250 specimens.
Yoder often cites the Lemur Center as the inspiration and advent of her career in the zoological and ecological sciences.
As the Center's director, Yoder seeks to strengthen already close ties with Duke's Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy.
She also wants to increase research and educational connections with the Nicholas School of the Environment and Earth Sciences, the Institute for Genome Sciences and Policy (IGSP) and other Duke organizations.
Later, in 2011, she joined DuPRI's Center for Population Health & Aging as a faculty research scholar.
That same year, she also became a faculty network member of the Duke Institute for Brain Sciences.
In 2014, Yoder became an affiliate of the Duke Initiative for Science & Society.
Anne is the executive committee president of the Society for Systematic Biologists, who publish the academic journal, Systematic Biologists.
Yoder joined Duke's faculty in August 2017.


Research

Yoder's works revolves around a diverse selection of research topics including environmental studies, speciation, biological evolution, phylogenetics, and phylogeography.
Yoder has also been involved with research that seeks to understand the effects of climate change on Madagascar's environment, the indigenous lemur populations, and possible migration patterns that lemurs may implement due to the continuing increase in temperatures.
Recently, Yoder and her team conducted research on a species of mouse lemurs.
Through their research they were able to articulate changes in Madagascar's environment, primarily habitat fragmentation, via phylogeographic analysis of the mouse lemurs highly evolving DNA.
Yoder and her team were able to assess this data due to the mouse lemur's frequent and high reproduction rates, allowing changes in DNA to be examined more easily.
She has published and co-published over one hundred research papers since 1992 in various scientific and academic journals including, Science, Nature, Molecular Ecology, Journal of Evolutionary Biology, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, American Journal of Primatology, and American Journal of Physical Anthropology.
In addition to her published papers, Yoder maintains her own website, The Yoder Lab, that includes updates concerning her continued research.
From her website, Yoder has written that her research statement consists of "Integrative Evolutionary Genetics in the Service of Conserving Biodiversity."


Outreach and scholarship
Yoder has been involved with the non-profit organization, Women in Science Tomorrow, and went on to join the Board of Directors.
The organization's primary goal is the further increase of overall interest in the sciences for young girls.
Yoder has also been involved with FEMMES, or Females Excelling More in Math, Engineering, and Science, as a thesis advisor.


Awards and honors

American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Member (2021)
John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship (2018)
Alexander von Humboldt Foundation Fellowship (2018)
Duke Graduate School Few-Glasson Alumni Society Inductee (2018)
Braxton Craven Distinguished Professor of Evolutionary Biology (2017)
Society for Systematic Biology, President Elect (2015)
National Science Foundation Career Development Award (2000)
Josephine Bay Paul and C.
Michael Paul Foundation Biodiversity Leadership Award (2002)
Katherine Stern Dissertation Fellowship (1991)
Best Student Paper in Systematic Zoology, American Society of Zoologists (1991)
The Sherwood Washburn Student Paper Prize, American Association of Physical Anthropologists (1991)


References

Greg McKeown (soccer)
Greg McKeown is a retired American soccer forward who played in the North American Soccer League and American Soccer League.
McKeown attended the University of San Francisco, playing on the men's soccer team from 1973 to 1977.
In 1976, he scored a goal and assisted on another as the Dons won the NCAA Men's Division I Soccer Championship.
In 1977, McKeown captained the Dons to a second consecutive Division I championship.
In 1977, the San Jose Earthquakes selected McKeown in the first round of the North American Soccer League.
 He played two first-team games over two seasons.
 In 1980–1981, he played for the Sacramento Gold of the American Soccer League.
In 1989, he was co-owner of the Sacramento Senators of the Western Soccer League.
In 2003, McKeown was inducted into the University of San Francisco sports hall of fame.
Greg McKeown is the CFO for Somerston Estate and Wine Company in Napa Valley.


References


External links
NASL stats

2012 Beijing International Challenger – Women's doubles
Chan Hao-ching and Chan Yung-jan were the defending champions, but only Hao-ching chose to participate that year.
Hao-ching played with Makoto Ninomiya, but lost in the semifinals to Chan Chin-wei and Han Xinyun.
Liu Wanting and Sun Shengnan won the title, defeating Chan Chin-wei and Han Xinyun 5–7, 6–0, [10–7] in the final.


Seeds


Draw
Key


Draw


References
Main Draw

Alucra District
Alucra District is a district of the Giresun Province of Turkey.
Its seat is the town of Alucra.
Its area is 1,138 km2, and its population is 8,574 (2022).



Geography
Alucra is an inland district, high in the Giresun Mountains, in the upper reaches of the Kelkit River.
The weather on the Black Sea coast is typically wet and humid but Alucra is high inland therefore much cooler in winter, when it snows, and then dry and hot in summer.
The snow melts in March and April and the spring rains last until June, during these months the rivers are full.
The countryside is high mountain and pasture, with fir tree cover on the north-facing mountainsides and bare southern faces.
Cattle are grazed in the pastures and some wheat is grown despite the dry summers, and in general Alucra is a collection of remote villages.



Composition
There is one municipality in Alucra District:

Alucra
There are 38 villages in Alucra District:


References

The Right Hook
The Right Hook was a late afternoon to early evening talk programme broadcast on the Dublin, Ireland-based national Newstalk commercial radio station, and hosted by George Hook.
It was the first radio show in Ireland to broadcast the show entirely live via web cam on the internet.


Schedule
Monday - Friday 16.30 - 19.00


Features
As well as featuring news and current affairs interviews and analysis, a number of regular segments featured including technology with Jessica Kelly and Jonathan McCrae, travel with Fionn Davenport, movies with Philip Molloy and sport, which featured regular contributions from well-known Irish sport pundits such as Johnny Giles, Liam Griffin and Jim Glennon.
On Mondays at 5.30, the outspoken right-wing talk show host Michael Graham linked up live from Boston.
Every Friday George was joined by Newstalk's political editor Shane Coleman and sports commentator Dave McIntyre for the duration of the show.


History
The Right Hook was presented from the start of Newstalk in 2002 by the same presenter until his retirement.
Garrett Harte was the original producer, and is credited by Hook on his autobiography Time Added On with moulding him into the presenter he is today.
Harte was later appointed Newstalk's station editor and the show was subsequently produced by Mark Simpson.
The show was well known for Hook's opinionated style of broadcasting and regularly traveled around Ireland for on-location broadcasts.
Throughout the course of the 2008 US Presidential Election Campaign, Hook broadcast from key locations in the United States such as New York for Super Tuesday, Denver for the 2008 Democratic National Convention and Washington D.C.
for both the 2008 election and the inauguration of Barack Obama as 44th President of the United States in January 2009.
The show is well known for interviewing the famous American celebrity Tom Cruise while he was doing a press junket in Europe for Mission Impossible - Ghost Protocol.
During campaigning ahead of the 2011 Irish presidential election, Fine Gael candidate Gay Mitchell made a joke about suicide on while appearing on The Right Hook.
He promised to "jump off O'Connell Bridge" if he was asked to smile.
Founding Secretary of the Irish Association of Suicidology Dr John Connolly described Mitchell's comment as "unfortunate".


References


External links
The Right Hook at Newstalk

Storycatchers Theatre
Storycatchers Theatre is a nonprofit organization in Chicago, Illinois, that serves adolescents and emerging adults at all stages of court involvement with creative youth development programs.
Storycatchers engages groups of young people in the process of writing, producing and performing original musicals inspired by their own personal stories.
Meade Palidofsky founded the company in 1984 and has served as its artistic director since its inception.
Storycatchers delivers its programs in partnerships that include the Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice, Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center, the North Region Aftercare Field Services Office, and cultural organizations that include Steppenwolf Theatre Company and Chicago Symphony Orchestra.
Programs include Word Warriors, formerly known as Fabulous Females, for girls and boys incarcerated at the Illinois Youth Center (IYC)-Warrenville, Firewriters for boys at IYC-Chicago, Temporary LockDown for boys at the Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center, and the Changing Voices post-release employment program for young people navigating reentry to Chicago neighborhoods, conducted in coordination with the newly formed Aftercare Services.
Changing Voices has been recognized with a GO Innovate Award from Chicago Beyond, as well as an Art for Justice Award.
Storycatchers received a 2013 National Arts and Humanities Youth Program Award from the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities.
Meade Palidofsky accepted the award from First Lady Michelle Obama in a ceremony at the White House in November 2013.


References


External links
Youth Development Arts Organization

Mercedes Junior Team
The Mercedes Junior Team is a driver development programme by the Mercedes-AMG F1 Team to help promote drivers from karts through the feeder series ladder to promote them to their Formula One team.
Four drivers have been promoted to Formula One while part of the Junior Team: Pascal Wehrlein (2016), Esteban Ocon (2016), George Russell (2019), and Andrea Kimi Antonelli (2025).
Of these, Russell and Antonelli have raced for the Mercedes works team.


Current drivers


Graduates to Formula 1
This list contains the drivers that have graduated to Formula 1 with support from Mercedes.
Therefore, drivers who have had support in the past and entered Formula 1 through other means are not included.
Drivers who drove for other teams while still part of Mercedes' youth setup are highlighted in italics.


Former drivers


References

Comfort Food (novel)
Comfort Food: A Novel by Noah Ashenhurst contains a cast of characters: a romantic academic, a self-assured young writer, an enigmatic musician, a slacker, a wealthy mountaineer, and a former heroin addict—characters whose lives intersect in the unique, award-winning debut novel.
It was first published in November 2005.


Plot introduction
Stan Gillman-Reinhart is a graduate student at a small university in Bellingham, Washington in 1993.
Through his experiences and frustrations we meet Delany Richardson, a budding writer and old friend of Stan's; John Snyder, a local musician; Brian Fetzler, Stan's stoner roommate; Dave Greibing, a mountaineer and Delany's ex-boyfriend; and Bridgette Jonsen, a former heroin addict and Dave's current girlfriend.
Successive sections of the novel focus on John's earlier trip through Eastern Europe, Delany's previous summer in Alaska, Brian's life after college, Bridgette's earlier road trip through Utah, Dave's ascent of Denali, and a tragic accident that illuminates their lives.
Set in the verdant Pacific Northwest, the sandstone deserts of Utah, the gritty streets of Budapest, and the snow-covered wasteland of Denali, Comfort Food is a literary work with an emphasis on the importance of human relationships and a sense of place.


Major themes
The major themes include:  The inescapable ability of death the difficulties of growing up and asserting one's individuality, the interconnectedness and power of relationships,  addictions as a means to deal with the discomforts of being human,  the power and impact of decisions in a morally bankrupt society, and the influence of place (especially in the American West).


Awards and nominations
Comfort Food: A Novel won the 2006 Independent Publisher Book Award for Best Regional Fiction (West-Pacific).


References

Chuck Pierce
Charles D.
Pierce is the founder and current president of Glory of Zion International Ministries.
 He is most known for his self-proclaimed prophecies.
Pierce is an author of several books of prophecy and frequent speaker on the subject.
 In 1999 he was a founder, and is one of the current leaders of, the New Apostolic Reformation.


Early Ministry
As of 1999, Pierce was vice president of Global Harvest Ministries.


Glory of Zion International Ministries
Pierce is the founder and current president of Glory of Zion International Ministries, located in Corinth, Texas.
 Glory of Zion International Ministries is a Vertical apostolic network.
It includes a 200,000-square-foot (19,000 m2) former Boeing aircraft factory as its headquarters and Sunday worship center; 600 house churches where small groups meet to view the services online; 1000 associated 501(c3) nonprofits; and more than 100 privately owned businesses.
All of these associated entities tithe to the ministry.
In 2022, their total contributions were US $21 million.


New Apostolic Reformation
In 1999 Pierce was a founder and is one of the current leaders of the New Apostolic Reformation (NAR), a term associated with fellow founder C.
Peter Wagner.
 The New Apostolic Reformation is a neo-charismatic dominionist movement, run by the "spiritual oligarchy" of independent networks of apostles and prophets, which seeks to set up a theocracy in the United States.
It intends to do this through the Seven Mountain Mandate, which states that Christians should control seven aspects of society: family, religion, education, media, arts and entertainment, business, and government.
Pierce, along with fellow apostle Dutch Sheets, wrote the book Releasing the Prophetic Destiny of a Nation in 2005.
It is an account of prophecies delivered by both authors while on a tour of the 50 states of the US.
Those that participate in the NAR see themselves as being in a spiritual battle with demonic forces and expect that God will enter the war soon and deliver them to victory.
Pierce is a member of Wagner's Apostolic Council of Prophetic Elders, along with other prophets such as Cindy Jacobs, Mike Bickle, Dutch Sheets, and James Goll.


Criticism
In her 2021 doctoral dissertation, "From Peter Wagner to Bill Johnson: The History and Epistemology of the 'New Apostolic Reformation'", Yvie Ruth Baker asserts that Pierce has employed several strategies for confounding verification of his prophesies.
 These strategies included the fact that "contexts given for these [prophesies] usually were unrecorded or private, hence not traceable".
 For the prophesies that Baker was able to trace, "I found that the claim was either fabricated, details were changed, or his prophecies differed substantially in meaning and intent from his later claim.
These included his claims to have predicted the September 11 attacks, Hurricane Katrina, Trump's election in 2016, and the COVID-19 virus."


References

Tece
Tece (Turkish pronunciation: [ˈtɛdʒɛ]) is a neighbourhood in the municipality and district of Mezitli, Mersin Province, Turkey.
Its population is 1,407 (2022).
Tece is named after Tece Creek which is to the east of the neighbourhood.
It is located on Turkish state highway D.400, 16 kilometres (9.9 mi) from the center of Mersin.
Tece used to be a small village located in the citrus plantation, but due to its proximity to Mersin and housing projects in the 1990s, its population increased sharply and a municipality was established in Tece.
However, in 2008, the municipality was disestablished and Tece was made a neighbourhood of Mezitli.
Tece is known for its ancient castle and its creek.
The Mersin municipality now runs a project of coastal area.
The project will include walking trails, bicycle roads, playgrounds, fitness centres, sport courts and coffeehouses between Mersin and Tece.


References

Ishim, Tyumen Oblast
Ishim (Russian: Иши́м) is a town in the south of Tyumen Oblast, Russia.
Population:  65,243 (2010 census); 67,757 (2002 census); 66,373 (1989 Soviet census).
It was previously known as Korkina Sloboda (until 1782).


History
It was founded in 1670 as the village of Korkina Sloboda.
In 1721, by the order of Tsar Peter the Great the village gained the right to establish Nikolskaya Trade Fair which rapidly became one of the most important trade fairs in Siberia.
This trade fair took place twice a year on the Saint Nicholas day (19 December and 22 May) until 1919.
In 1782, by the order of Empress Catherine the Great, Korkina Sloboda was renamed Ishim and was granted town status.
In 1918, Ishim became the administrative center of Ishimsky Uyezd.
In 1921-1922 Ishim was the center of the West Siberian rebellion.
In 1984, the city began a sister city relationship with Grand Forks, North Dakota in the United States.
This relationship terminated in the late 1990s due to economic turmoil in Ishim.
In 2017 Ishim began a sister relationship with Surovikino, Volgograd Oblast in Russia.


Administrative and municipal status
Within the framework of administrative divisions, Ishim serves as the administrative center of Ishimsky District, even though it is not a part of it.
As an administrative division, it is incorporated separately as the Town of Ishim—an administrative unit with the status equal to that of the districts.
As a municipal division, the Town of Ishim is incorporated as Ishim Urban Okrug.


Transport
Ishim is currently designated the eastern terminus of European route E22, a road route crossing Russia, Latvia, Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom.


Climate


Notable people
Pyotr Pavlovich Yershov, writer
Nikolai Nikitin, engineer
Nikolay Anikin, Olympic cross country skier
Boris Shakhlin, a Soviet gymnast, the 1960 Olympic all-around champion and the 1958 all-around World Champion


References


Notes


Sources
Тюменская областная Дума.
Закон №53 от 4 ноября 1996 г.
«Об административно-территориальном устройстве Тюменской области», в ред.
Закона №47 от 7 мая 2015 г.
«О внесении изменений в статьи 14 и 15 Закона Тюменской области "Об административно-территориальном устройстве Тюменской области"».
Вступил в силу с момента официального опубликования.
Опубликован: "Тюменские известия", №220, 12 ноября 1996 г.
(Tyumen Oblast Duma.
Law #53 of November 4, 1996 On the Administrative-Territorial Structure of Tyumen Oblast, as amended by the Law #47 of May 7, 2015 On Amending Articles 14 and 15 of the Law of Tyumen Oblast "On the Administrative-Territorial Structure of Tyumen Oblast".
Effective as of the moment of official publication.).
Тюменская областная Дума.
Закон №263 от 5 ноября 2004 г.
«Об установлении границ муниципальных образований Тюменской области и наделении их статусом муниципального района, городского округа и сельского поселения», в ред.
Закона №39 от 7 мая 2015 г.
«Об упразднении деревни Бурмистрова Балаганского сельского поселения Викуловского муниципального района Тюменской области и внесении изменений в отдельные Законы Тюменской области».
Вступил в силу 1 января 2005 г.
Опубликован: "Тюменская область сегодня", №213 (без приложений), 12 ноября 2004 г.
(Tyumen Oblast Duma.
Law #263 of November 5, 2004 On Establishing the Borders of the Municipal Formations of Tyumen Oblast and on Granting Them the Status of a Municipal District, Urban Okrug, and Rural Settlement, as amended by the Law #39 of May 7, 2015 On Abolishing the Village of Burmistrova in Balaganskoye Rural Settlement of Vikulovsky Municipal District of Tyumen Oblast and on Amending Various Laws of Tyumen Oblast.
Effective as of January 1, 2005.).


External links
 Media related to Ishim at Wikimedia Commons

Official website of Ishim Archived September 25, 2023, at the Wayback Machine (in Russian)
Ishim Business Directory (in Russian)
"Ishim" .
Encyclopædia Britannica (11th ed.).
1911.

John Sudbury
John Sudbury was Dean  of Durham from his installation on 15 February 1661 until his death on 29 November 1684.
He was born at Bury St Edmunds in 1604, educated at Emmanuel College, Cambridge and ordained in 1629.
He was Vicar of Leigh, Kent from 1639 to 1642 and a Prebendary of Westminster from 1660 to 1661.


References

Roberto Romero
Roberto Romero (October 22, 1927 – February 15, 1992) was an Argentine Justicialist Party politician and businessman.
Romero was a founder of the provincial El Tribuno newspaper.
He was elected as Governor of Salta Province, serving from 1983 to 1987, and completing numerous public works aimed at the province's growing tourist industry – notably the DELMI Stadium and the San Bernardo Hill Aerial tramway.
He then stepped down to become a national deputy in the Argentine Chamber of Deputies for Salta Province.
He stood for governor once again in 1991, but lost and retired that year from public life.
In February 1992, whilst on holiday with his family in Brazil, Romero was killed in an automobile accident.
His son, Juan Carlos Romero, later also served as Governor of Salta.
In 2006 it came to light that the Drug Enforcement Administration of the United States had considered Romero the likely head of a major drug cartel.
[1]


External links
(in Spanish) Biography

Izcalli
Izcalli is the name of the eighteenth and last month of the Aztec calendar.
It is also a festival  in the Aztec religion, for which the principal deity is Xiuhtecuhtli the fire God.
Old people are honored this month and it is known as Rebirth Month.


References

The Wiyos
The Wiyos are an American ragtime and blues band from the Brooklyn area of New York City.
They are named after The Whyos, a street gang in New York City in the late 1800s.
In their early days in they busked across the United States spending time in New Orleans.
In 2009 they had their big break when they were invited to tour with Bob Dylan.


References


External links
http://www.thewiyos.com/ Official website

The Regattas of San Francisco
The Regattas of San Francisco is a 1960 French film directed by Claude Autant-Lara.
It was also known as Les régates de San Francisco.
There was a dispute between the producer, Raoul Levy, and the director, Claude Autant-Lara when the former insisted on making cuts to the movie.
This resulted in the latter trying to take his name off the film.


References


External links
The Regattas of San Francisco at IMDb

Gun Play
Gun Play is a 1935 American Western film directed by Albert Herman and starring Guinn 'Big Boy' Williams, Marion Shilling and Frank Yaconelli.


Plot


Cast
Guinn 'Big Boy' Williams as Bill Williams
Marion Shilling as Madge Holt
Frank Yaconelli as Frank Gorman
Hal Taliaferro as George Holt
Charles K.
French as Old John Holt
Tom London as Meeker
Roger Williams as Cal
Gordon Griffith as Mark
Barney Beasley as Pete
Dick Botiller as General Tirado
Julian Rivero as Young Pedro
Helen Gibson as Woman at dance


References


Bibliography
Pitts, Michael R.
Poverty Row Studios, 1929-1940.
McFarland & Company, 2005.


External links
Gun Play at IMDb
Gun Play at the TCM Movie Database
Gun Play at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films

Sorriso Maroto
Sorriso Maroto is a Brazilian pagode band originating from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
It was formed in 1997 by singer and tambourine player Cris Oliveira, and later headed by singer-songwriter Bruno Cardoso.
They have released ten albums.


Career
The band was born in 1997 when a group of friends all from Grajaú, a suburb north of Rio de Janeiro, joined and started playing.
The band's original lead singer was Cris Oliveira, 23 at the time.
In 2002 with the debut album, Sorriso Maroto, the group started being featured on radio and by their second album Por Você they included romantic samba tunes and engaged in a tour with the live album and DVD Por Você: ao Vivo released in 2005 selling well above 120,000 copies.
Their follow up album É Diferente in 2006 also resulted in another tour and the live CD and DVD É Diferente: Ao Vivo in 2007 celebrating a decade of career.
After ten years with Deckdisc, the Brazilian record label Som Livre released in 2009 their CD 100% Sorriso Maroto.
With Sinais, came the hit "E Agora Nós?" with a guest performance by Ivete Sangalo.
In 2010 Ao Vivo em Recife was released by Universal Music Group as CD, DVD and on Blu-ray, the first for the band.
It was recorded on August 7, 2010, at a concert at Marco Zeroo in Recife, in front of tens of thousands, and encompassing the band's biggest hits.
On 1 March 2012, the group performed a show at Quinta da Boa Vista, on the birthday of the city of Rio de Janeiro.
Album and DVD Sorriso 15 Anos – Ao Vivo celebrated the 15th anniversary of the band, and the participation of several artist in support like Jammil e Uma Noites, Trio Ternura, Coral Resgate, Revelação, Gusttavo Lima, amongst others.
The American musician Brian McKnight, rerecorded a new version of the band's 2002 hit "E Agora Nós?" version of the song retitled "Back at One".
Michel Teló recorded "É Nóis Fazê Parapapá" in 2013, giving the band and its singer Bruno Cardoso greater international fame.
Also in 2013, the band released Riscos e Certezas, an EP of six tracks.
The bonus track "Fofinha Delícia (Excesso de Gostosura)" was used as theme song the soap opera Amor à Vida.
In 2015, their album Sorriso Eu Gosto – Ao Vivo No Maracanãzinho was nominated for the 16th Latin Grammy Awards in the Best Samba/Pagode Album category.


Members
Bruno Cardoso – vocals
Cris Oliveira – tambourine
Sérgio Jr.
– guitar
Fred Araújo – surdo (bass drum)
Vinícius Augusto – keyboards


Discography
Studio albums / DVDs

EPs

Live albums / DVDs


Singles

Featured in


References


External links
Official website
Facebook
Sorriso Maroto at IMDb

Honor Roll (disambiguation)
Honor Roll may refer to:

Honor roll, a list of honors students
Honor Rolls of Baseball, established in 1946
Honour Roll Clasp, a decoration of Nazi Germany during World War II
The Honor Roll, a band later known as We Shot the Moon


See also
Honor Roll Murder, the murder of Stuart Tay
Roll of Honour (disambiguation)
Tasmanian Honour Roll of Women, an Australian register that honours the achievements of women in the state of Tasmania
Victorian Honour Roll of Women, an Australian register that honours the achievements of women in the state of Victoria

Peter Hines
Peter Hines (born 31 October 1948) is  a former Australian rules footballer who played with Footscray in the Victorian Football League (VFL).		


Notes
		


External links
Peter Hines's playing statistics from AFL Tables
Peter Hines at AustralianFootball.com

Tara Hurley
Tara Hurley (born August 6, 1976) is an American director of the 2009 documentary Happy Endings?.
Hurley was born in Providence, Rhode Island and grew up in the Riverside section of East Providence.
She graduated from Providence College in 1998, where she received a bachelor's degree in Humanities.
She studied abroad in Salamanca, Spain her junior year.


Happy Endings?

Hurley's 2009 documentary following the debate over prostitution in Rhode Island where prostitution has been decriminalized for almost three decades.
Hurley turned her cameras on the women in the Asian massage parlors at the center of the debate to criminalize prostitution where there had been rumors of human trafficking.
Before making Happy Endings?, Hurley says she had no preconceived notions on prostitution, and wanted to make the film to find out how she felt as a woman and a feminist about prostitution.
In one interview Hurley states "I couldn't force an opinion on anyone because I didn't really have one.
After making the film, doing all the research, and meeting all the people, I personally believe that all prostitution laws harm the women that they claim to protect.
When a woman is arrested and gets a criminal record, she no longer has a chance to get out of sex work even if she wanted to.
When filling out a job application it will be difficult to explain the criminal record, especially with all the stigma that comes with prostitution.
To add insult to injury, I am offended that only the woman is arrested."
While debating the change in Rhode Island's prostitution law, Hurley stated that she was in support of full legalization of prostitution, though she later wrote in support of the Swedish model of prostitution law for Rhode Island as an alternative to the criminalization of sex workers.
She also made an appearance on The Dan Yorke Show in which she discussed the film.
Hurley joined the fight to pass stronger human trafficking laws.
In addition to working for tougher trafficking laws, Hurley also brought women from the spas to testify against the proposed prostitution law.


References


External links
Official Film Website
Official Film Blog

Pat Eatock
June Patricia "Pat" Eatock (14 December 1937 – 17 March 2015) was an Indigenous Australian activist and academic.
In 1972, she became the first Indigenous woman in Australia to stand for federal parliament.


Early years
She was born in Redcliffe to Roderick Eatock, of Aboriginal and English descent, and Scottish migrant Elizabeth Stephenson Anderson.
Having left school at the age of fourteen, she moved to Sydney at eighteen and married her cousin, Ron Eatock, with whom she had six children.


Career and activism
In 1972 she attended a land rights conference in Alice Springs, after which she left her husband and moved to Canberra.
With her baby, Eatock joined the Aboriginal Tent Embassy in Canberra and participated in the protests against its removal.
In 1972 she was the first indigenous woman to stand for federal parliament, running unsuccessfully as an independent candidate for Australian Capital Territory.
She was the first non-matriculated mature-aged student to study at the Australian National University in 1973, and graduated in 1977 with a Bachelor of Arts.
In 1975 Eatock attended the Alternative Tribune to the International Women's Year World Conference in Mexico City.
From 1978 to 1981 she was a project officer in the Aboriginal Unit of the Department of Social Security, and she was also a lecturer at Curtin University (1991–92, community development) and James Cook University (1997, Aboriginal studies).
From 1992 to 1996 she established and managed Perleeka Aboriginal Television.
In 2011, Eatock was the lead litigant in a case against conservative columnist Andrew Bolt, in which she and others sued Bolt under the Racial Discrimination Act (RDA) following a column alleging that fair-skinned indigenous Australians identified as Aboriginals for monetary gain.
The court found for Eatock against Bolt, leading to widespread controversy and a campaign to amend the RDA.
Following an incident in 2012 Eatock became known as the “holder of the shoe” after then-Prime Minister Julia Gillard lost her shoe during a protest at the 40th anniversary of the Aboriginal Tent Embassy in Canberra.


Personal life
Eatock died in 2015.


References


External links
Eatock, Pat at The Encyclopedia of Women and Leadership in Twentieth-Century Australia

J. K. Okine
Jacob Korley Okine (1926 - 2018) was a Ghanaian teacher and city councillor.
He was headmaster of Accra Academy from 1967 to 1986.
He was the third head of the school.
He was Presiding Member of the Accra City Council from 1987 to 1994.



Early life
Jacob Korley Okine was born on 5 August 1926 in Accra.
His parents were James Tawiah Okai and Dede Wusu.
 
Okine's elementary education was at Accra United School.
He continued at Accra Academy from 1939 to 1945.
There, he was the headboy in his final year.
He studied at the intermediate department of Achimota College from 1946 to 1948.
His mates at the department included Alex Kwapong, P.
K.
K.
Quaidoo, Daniel Francis Annan, Patrick Anin and Alex Quaison-Sackey.
In 1950, he was admitted to the University College of the Gold Coast and received the University of London's B.
A.
in Mathematics in 1952.



Career
Okine was a non-graduate tutor at Accra Academy from 1948 to 1950 when he took leave for further studies.
In 1952, he returned to Accra Academy as a graduate tutor.
He taught mathematics, English and Latin.
In 1960, he was appointed senior mathematics master and school librarian with responsibility for the school's timetable.
In May 1962, he was appointed as assistant headmaster to A.
K.
Konuah to replace J.
A.
Halm-Addo.
With this, he assumed the duties of secretary of the Board of Governors.
In October 1967, Okine was appointed headmaster of Accra Academy.
In 1973, he became a mathematics moderator for the West African Examinations Council after being a chief examiner of the examination body for ten years.
In 1973, again, he became chairperson of the Greater Accra Regional branch of the Conference of Heads of Assisted Secondary Schools, a position he held for five years.
From 1977 to 1979, he served on the National Advisory Council on Curriculum Development.
Okine was a member of the Ghana National Committee of WAEC from 1978 to 1981.
In 1980 he became a member of council of WAEC and served on the council until 1983.
In 1986, Okine retired from the Ghana Education Service and left office as headmaster of Accra Academy upon reaching the age of sixty years.
He handed over to Vincent Freeman.

In 1987, Okine was appointed as a member of the Accra City Council and served as the presiding member of the city council for two four-year terms from 1987 to 1994.
He was the representative of the Accra City Council on the Consultative Assembly that drafted the 1992 Constitution of Ghana.
On 31 January 2015, Okine was presented a citation by the Accra Metropolitan Assembly (formerly  Accra City Council) for being its longest serving presiding member at a ball.


References

Henry Graham (poet)
Henry Graham (born 1 December 1930 in Liverpool - 20 March 2019) was a British poet.
Educated at the Liverpool College of Art in the early 1950s, he was part of the Liverpool poetry scene in the 1960s, and was one of the poetry editors of the British literary magazine Ambit.
Graham was a lecturer in Art at The John Moores University for many years and his most recent book of poems was published in 2002 by Driftwood Publications on Merseyside.
His achievements were noted by the award of Arts Council Literature Awards in 1969, 1971 and 1975.


Publications
Kafka in Liverpool (2002)
Bar Room Ballads (1999)
The Eye of the Beholder (1997)
The Very Fragrant Death of Paul Gauguin (1987)
Bomb (1985)
Europe After Rain (1981)
Poker in Paradise Lost (with Jim Mangnall) (1977)
Passport to Earth (1971)
Good Luck to You, Kafka/You Need It, Boss (1969)
Soup City Zoo (with Jim Mangnall) (1968)


References

Penijamini Makutu
Ratu Penijamini Navidividinisiga Makutu (born 1 April 1989) is a Fijian rugby union player.


Rugby union career
A prop, Makutu made his debut for Fiji against Tonga in the 2011 IRB Pacific Nations Cup, gaining further caps in later tournament matches against Samoa and Japan.
He made the initial Fiji squad for the 2011 Rugby World Cup but after breaking his arm was replaced by Graham Dewes.
His fourth and final cap came in Fiji's 2012 match against England at Twickenham.
He has played rugby for Nadroga and Suva.


Military
Makutu, a member of the Republic of Fiji Military Forces, has served in the Middle East with United Nations peacekeeping forces.


See also
List of Fiji national rugby union players


References


External links
Penijamini Makutu at ESPNscrum (archived)

Second Macedonian War
The Second Macedonian War (200–197 BC) was fought between Macedon, led by Philip V of Macedon, and Rome, allied with Pergamon and Rhodes.
Philip was defeated and was forced to abandon all possessions in southern Greece, Thrace and Asia Minor.
During their intervention, although the Romans declared the "freedom of the Greeks" against the rule from the Macedonian kingdom, the war marked a significant stage in increasing Roman intervention in the affairs of the eastern Mediterranean, which would eventually lead to Rome's conquest of the entire region.


Background

In 204 BC, King Ptolemy IV Philopator of Egypt died, leaving the throne to his six-year-old son Ptolemy V.
Philip V of Macedon and Antiochus the Great of the Seleucid Empire decided to exploit the weakness of the young king by taking Ptolemaic territory for themselves and they signed a secret pact defining spheres of interest, opening the Fifth Syrian War.
Philip first turned his attention to the independent Greek city states in Thrace and near the Dardanelles.
His success at taking cities such as Kios worried the state of Rhodes and King Attalus I of Pergamon who also had interests in the area.
In 201 BC, Philip launched a campaign into Asia Minor, besieging the Ptolemaic city of Samos and capturing Miletus.
Again, this disconcerted Rhodes and Attalus and Philip responded by ravaging Attalid territory and destroying the temples outside the walls of Pergamon.
Philip then invaded Caria but the Rhodians and Pergamenians successfully blockaded his fleet in Bargylia, forcing him to spend the winter with his army in a country which offered very few provisions.
At this point, although they appeared to have the upper hand, Rhodes and Pergamon still feared Philip so much that they sent an appeal to the rising power of Rome, which had just emerged victorious from the Second Punic War against Carthage.
The Romans had previously fought the First Macedonian War against Philip V over Illyria, which had been resolved by the Peace of Phoenice in 205 BC.
Very little in Philip's recent actions in Thrace and Asia Minor could be said to concern the Roman Republic directly.
The Senate passed a supportive decree and Marcus Valerius Laevinus was sent to investigate.
Earlier in 201 BC, Athens' relations with Philip had suddenly deteriorated.
A pair of Acarnanians had entered the Temple of Demeter during the Eleusinian Mysteries and the Athenians had put them to death.
In response, the Acarnanian League launched a raid on Attica, aided by Macedonian troops which they had received from Philip V.
Shortly after this, King Attalus I arrived in Athens with Rhodian ambassadors and convinced the Athenians, who had maintained strict neutrality since the end of the Chremonidean War, to declare war on Macedon.
Attalus sailed off, bringing most of the Cycladic islands over to his side and sent embassies to the Aetolian League in the hope of bringing them into the war as well.
In response to the Athenian declaration of war, Philip dispatched a force of 2,000 infantry and 200 cavalry under the command of Philokles to invade Attica and place the city of Athens under siege.


Course of the war


Rome enters the war (200 BC)
On 15 March 200 BC, new consuls, Publius Sulpicius Galba and Gaius Aurelius Cotta took office in Rome.
In light of reports from Laevinus and further embassies from Pergamon, Rhodes, and Athens, the task of dealing with the troubles in Macedonia was allotted to Sulpicius.
He called an assembly of the Comitia centuriata, the body with the legal power to make declarations of war.
The Comitia nearly unanimously rejected his proposed war, an unprecedented act which was attributed to war weariness.
At a second session, Sulpicius convinced the Comitia to vote for war.
Sulpicius recruited troops and departed to Brundisium in the autumn, where he added veterans of the Second Punic War who had just returned from Africa to his forces.
Then he crossed the Adriatic, landing his troops in Apollonia and stationing the navy at Corcyra.


Siege of Abydos
While these events had been taking place, Philip V himself had undertaken another campaign in the Dardanelles, taking a number of Ptolemaic cities in rapid succession before besieging the important city of Abydos.
Polybius reports that during the siege of Abydos, Philip had grown impatient and sent a message to the besieged that the walls would be stormed and that if anybody wished to commit suicide or surrender they had three days to do so.
The citizens promptly killed all the women and children of the city, threw their valuables into the sea and fought to the last man.
During the siege of Abydos, in the autumn of 200 BC, Philip was met by Marcus Aemilius Lepidus, a Roman ambassador on his way back from Egypt, who urged him not to attack any Greek state or to seize any territory belonging to Ptolemy and to go to arbitration with Rhodes and Pergamon.
Philip protested that he was not in violation of any of the terms of the Peace of Phoenice, but in vain.
As he returned to Macedonia after the fall of Abydos, he learnt of the landing of Sulpicius' force in Epirus.


Cento's attack on Chalcis and Philip's invasion of Attica

The Athenians, who were now besieged by Macedonian forces, sent an appeal to the Roman force in Corcyra.
Gaius Claudius Centho was sent with 20 ships and 1,000 men to aid them.
Philokles and his troops withdrew from Attica to their base in Corinth.
In response to a request from Chalcidean exiles, Claudius led a surprise raid on the city of Chalcis in Euboea, one of the key Antigonid strongholds known as the 'fetters of Greece' and inflicting serious damage and heavy casualties.
Philip rushed to Chalcis with a force of 5,000 men and 300 cavalry.
Finding that Claudius had already withdrawn, he sped on towards Athens, where he defeated the Athenian and Attalid troops in a battle outside the Dipylon Gate and encamped at Cynosarges.
After setting fire to the sanctuaries and tombs outside the city walls, Philip departed to Corinth.
From there, Philip went down to Argos where the Achaean League was holding an assembly, which he attempted to bring onto his side in exchange for supporting them in their ongoing conflict with Nabis of Sparta, but he was rebuffed.
Joining up with a force of 2,000 men brought by his general Philokles, Philip made a series of three unsuccessful assaults on Eleusis, Piraeus, and Athens and ravaged the territory of Athens.
Then he ravaged the sanctuaries throughout Attica and withdrew to Boeotia.
The damage to the rural and deme sanctuaries of Attica was severe and marks the permanent end of their use.
Philip spent the rest of the winter preparing for the Roman assault.
He sent his young son Perseus with a force to prevent the Romans and Dardanians from advancing over the Šar Mountains into northern Macedonia.
Philip had the settlements on the Sporades islands of Peparethos and Skiathos destroyed to prevent enemies using them as naval bases.
The Macedonian army was gathered at Demetrias.


Sulpicius and Villius' campaigns (200-199 BC)


Sulpicius' invasion of Upper Macedonia

During this time Sulpicius had established a firm base by the Seman river in Illyria.
A force under Lucius Apustius was sent to raid the western border of Macedonia, capturing or razing a number of cities, including Antipatrea and Codrion.
Following this expedition, Sulpicius received the allegiance of the Illyrians under Pleuratus III, the Dardanians under Bato, and the Athamanes under Amynander.
The diplomatic efforts of Philip, Sulpicius, and the Athenians centred on the Aetolian League, which seemed inclined to support the Romans but remained neutral at this stage.
In the spring of 199 BC, Sulpicius led his troops east through the territory of the Dassaretii, an Illyrian tribe that occupied the area bordering western Macedonia.
Philip gathered 20,000 infantry and 4,000 cavalry, recalling the troops he had stationed in the north with Perseus, and marched west.
He encamped on a hill near Athacus which overlooked Sulpicius' camp.
After a series of indecisive skirmishes (in one of which Philip was nearly captured), news came that the Dardanians had invaded northern Macedonia, and the Macedonians withdrew secretly in the night.
When he realised what had happened, Sulpicius set out in pursuit through Pelagonia, found Philip blocking the pass to Eordaea and forced it.
Sulpicius ravaged Eordaea, then Elimeia to the south, and then followed the Haliacmon river valley up to Orestis, where he conquered Celetrum and Pelion and then returned to his base.
Philip split his force, sending a contingent of his army north to deal with the Dardanian invasion, which it did, while he himself headed south.


Roman naval campaign and Aetolian campaign
At the same time as this land campaign set out, the Roman fleet had left Corcyra under command of Lucius Apustius, rounded Cape Malea, and rendezvoused with King Attalus near Hermione.
The combined fleet then launched an assault on the Macedonian military base on the island of Andros and seized it for Pergamon.
The fleet was joined by further ships from Issa and Rhodes and headed north to the Chalkidike peninsula where an assault on Cassandreia was a complete failure.
They withdrew to northern Euboea, where they besieged and captured Oreus, another key Macedonian naval base.
Since it was now autumn and the sailing season was drawing to a close, the contingents of the fleet dispersed back to their home ports.
As these campaigns progressed, Damocritus, the strategos of the Aetolian League, had decided that it was time to join the war on the Roman side.
Together with King Amynander, he led an invasion of Magnesia and Perrhaebia, then continued to ravage Thessaly.
There, Philip suddenly appeared and completely defeated their force.
He spent some time besieging the Aetolian city of Thaumaci, but gave up and withdrew as winter approached.
He spent the winter training his army and engaging in diplomacy, particularly with the Achaean League.


Villius' campaign
In Rome, the new consuls took office on 15 March 199 BC, Publius Villius Tappulus was allotted Macedonia as his province.
He crossed the Adriatic to Corcyra, where he replaced Sulpicius in command of the army.
On his arrival, Villius faced a mutiny by 2,000 troops, veterans of the Second Punic War who wished to be demobilised.
He resolved this, by forwarding their concerns to the Senate, but was left with little time to prosecute a campaign.
Philip marched west and encamped on both sides of the Aoös river where it passed through a narrow ravine.
Villius marched to meet him but was still considering what to do when he learnt that his successor, Titus Quinctius Flamininus had been elected and was on his way to Corcyra to assume command.
In Asia Minor, Pergamon was invaded by the Seleucid king Antiochus III.
As a result, Attalus was not able to assist in the naval war in the Aegean until a Roman embassy forced Antiochus to withdraw.


Flamininus' first campaign (198 BC)


Roman invasion of Thessaly
When the new consuls took office on 15 March 198, the Senate ordered the recruitment of 8,000 new infantry and 800 cavalry for the war.
Command in Macedonia was allotted to Flamininus.
He was not yet thirty and was a self-proclaimed Philhellene.
Flamininus was delayed by religious matters for some time, but then he recruited the new forces, crossed the Adriatic, and dismissed Villius.
The army encamped in the Aous Valley, across the river from Philip's for forty days.
At a peace conference, Flamininus announced the Romans' new peace terms.
Up to this point, the Romans had merely ordered Philip to stop attacking the Greek cities.
Now Flamininus demanded that he should make reparations to all the Greek cities he had harmed and withdraw all his garrisons from cities outside Macedonia, including Thessaly, which had been part of the Macedonian kingdom continuously since 353 BC.
Philip stormed out of the meeting in anger and Flamininus decided to attack.
In the subsequent Battle of the Aous, Flamininus was victorious despite the advantage the terrain gave to the Macedonian army, when he was shown a pass through the mountains which allowed him to send a force to attack the Macedonians from the rear.
The Macedonian force collapsed and fled, suffering 2,000 casualties.
Philip was able to gather up the survivors and retreat to Thessaly.
There he destroyed the city of Tricca to prevent it falling into Roman hands and withdrew to Tempe.
After the Roman victory, the Aetolians led a rapid attack through Ainis and into Dolopia, while King Amynander attacked and captured Gomphi, in the south-western corner of Thessaly.
Meanwhile, Flamininus entered Epirus, which now joined the Roman side.
Together with Amynander, he entered Thessaly.
The army did not encounter much resistance at first, but he became caught up in a prolonged siege at Atrax.
Eventually he was forced to abandon this siege and march south into Phocis in order to secure his supply lines and lodgings for winter by capturing Anticyra.
He then besieged and captured Elateia.


Roman naval campaign
While this campaign was taking place, the consul's brother, Lucius Quinctius Flamininus had taken control of the Roman fleet and sailed to Athens.
He rendezvoused with the Attalid and Rhodian fleets near Euboea.
Eretria was taken after fierce fighting and Carystus surrendered, meaning that the entire island of Euboea was now under Roman control.
The fleet travelled back around Attica to Cenchreae and placed Corinth under siege.
From there, Lucius, Attalus, the Rhodians, and the Athenians sent ambassadors to the Achaian League in order to bring them into the war on the Roman side.
The league held an assembly at Sicyon to decide how to respond, which was extremely contentious.
On the one hand, the Achaians were still at war with Sparta and they were allied to Macedonia, but on the other hand their new chief magistrate Aristaenus was pro-Roman and the Romans promised to give the city of Corinth to the League.
The representatives of Argos, Megalopolis, and Dyme, which all had particularly strong ties with Philip, left the meeting.
The rest of the assembly voted to join the anti-Macedonian alliance.
The Achaian army joined the other forces besieging Corinth, but after fierce fighting the siege had to be abandoned when 1,500 Macedonian reinforcements commanded by Philokles arrived from Boiotia.
From Corinth, Philokles was invited to take control of Argos by pro-Macedonians in the city, which he did without a fight.


Winter negotiations
Over the winter of 198/197 BC, Philip declared his willingness to make peace.
The parties met at Nicaea in Locris in November 198 - Philip sailed from Demetrias, but he refused to disembark and meet Flamininus and his allies on the beach, so he addressed them from the prow of his ship.
To prolong the proceedings, Flamininus insisted that all his allies should be present at the negotiations.
He then reiterated his demands that Philip should withdraw all his garrisons from Greece, Illyria, and Asia Minor.
Philip was not prepared to go this far and he was persuaded to send an embassy to the Roman Senate.
When this embassy reached Rome, the Senate demanded that Philip surrender the "fetters of Greece," Demetrias, Chalcis, and Corinth, but Philip's envoys claimed they had no permission to agree to this, so the war continued.
According to Polybius and Plutarch, these negotiations were manipulated by Flamininus - Philip's overtures had come just as elections were being held in Rome.
Flamininus was eager to take the credit for ending the war, but he did not yet know whether his command would be prolonged and had intended to make a quick peace deal with Philip, if it was not.
He therefore dragged out the negotiations until he learnt that his command had been prorogued and then had his friends in Rome scupper the meeting in the Senate.
Once this had become clear, Philip attempted to free up his forces by handing the city of Argos over to Nabis of Sparta, but Nabis then engineered a revolution in the city and organised a conference with Flamininus, Attalus and the Achaeans at Mycenae, at which he agreed to stop attacking the Achaeans and to supply troops to the Romans.


Flamininus' second campaign (197 BC)

Over the rest of the winter, Philip mobilised all the manpower of his kingdom including the aged veterans and the underage boys, which amounted to 18,000 men.
To these he added 4,000 peltasts from Thrace and Illyria, and 2,500 mercenaries.
All these forces were gathered at Dion.
Reinforcements were sent to Flamininus from Italy, numbering 6,000 infantry, 300 cavalry, and 3,000 marines.
At the start of spring, Flamininus and Attalus went to Thebes to bring the Boeotian League into the coalition.
Because Flamininus had managed to sneak 2,000 troops into the city, the assembly of the League had no choice but to join the Roman coalition.
At the assembly, King Attalus suddenly suffered a stroke while giving a speech and was left paralysed on one side.
He was eventually evacuated back to Pergamon, where he died later that year.
In June 197 BC, Flamininus marched north from Elateia through Thermopylae.
En route, he was joined by forces from Aetolia, Gortyn in Crete, Apollonia, and Athamania.
Philip marched south into Thessaly and the two armies encamped opposite each other near Pherae.
Both armies relocated to the hills around Scotussa.
Contingents of the opposing armies came into contact with one another in the Cynoscephalae hills, leading to a full battle.
In what proved to be the decisive engagement of the war, the legions of Flamininus defeated Philip's Macedonian phalanx.
Philip himself fled on horseback, collected the survivors, and withdrew to Macedonia.
Philip was forced to sue for peace on Roman terms.


Achaia, Acarnania, and Caria
At the same time as this campaign was taking place in Thessaly, three other campaigns occurred in Achaea, Acarnania, and Caria - in all of which the Macedonians were defeated.
In the Peloponnese, Androsthenes set out from Corinth with a Macedonian army of 6,000 men into the lands controlled by the Achaean League and pillaged the territories of Pellene, Phlius, Cleonae, and Sicyon.
The Achaean general, Nicostratus, who was able to muster 5,000 men, closed off the pass back to Corinth, and defeated the Macedonian forces in detail.
In Acarnania, there had been attempts to switch to the Roman side before the Battle of Cynoscephalae, but the League's assembly had eventually decided against this because of their hostility to the Aetolians.
Lucius Flamininus therefore sailed to the Acarnanian capital of Leucas, and launched an all-out assault, which proved very difficult.
Thanks to traitors inside the city, it was eventually captured.
Shortly after this, news of the Battle of Cynoscephalae arrived and the rest of the Acarnanians surrendered.
In Asia Minor, the Rhodians led a force of 4,500 mercenaries (mostly Achaeans) into Caria to recapture the Rhodian Peraia.
A battle took place with the Macedonian forces in the area at Alabanda, in which the Rhodians were victorious.
The Rhodians then recaptured their Peraia, but failed to take Stratonicea.


Aftermath


The Peace of Flamininus
An armistice was declared, and peace negotiations were held in the Vale of Tempe.
Philip agreed to evacuate the whole of Greece and relinquish his conquests in Thrace and Asia Minor.
Philip had to rush off almost immediately after the agreement of terms to deal with an invasion of Upper Macedonia by the Dardanians.
The treaty was sent to Rome for ratification.
Despite the efforts of the consul-elect Marcus Claudius Marcellus to prolong the war, the Roman Tribal Assembly voted unanimously to make peace.
The Senate sent ten commissioners to advise on the final peace terms, including Publius Sulpicius Galba and Publius Villius Tappulus.
On the advice of these men, the final peace was made with Philip in spring 196 BC.
Philip had to remove all his garrisons in Greek cities in Europe and Asia, which were to be free and autonomous.
Philip had to pay a war indemnity of 1,000 talents - half paid immediately and the rest in ten annual instalments of 50 talents.
He had to surrender his whole navy except for his flagship, while his army was limited to a maximum of 5,000 men, could not include elephants, and could not be led beyond his borders without permission of the Roman Senate.


Boeotian campaign
Over the winter of 197/196 BC, while the peace negotiations were still ongoing, conflict had broken out in Boeotia, leading to the assassination of the pro-Macedonian Boeotarch Brachylles by the pro-Roman leaders Zeuxippus and Peisistratus.
There was a strong popular backlash, resulting in the murder of about 500 Roman soldiers who had been billeted in Boeotia.
Roman forces invaded Boeotia, but the Athenians and Achaeans managed to negotiate a settlement.


Aetolian response to the peace
At the initial peace negotiations, a rift opened up between Flamininus and the Aetolians, since the latter wanted harsher peace terms imposed on Philip than Flamininus was willing to countenance and desired the return of a number of cities that they had previously controlled in Thessaly but Flamininus refused to back them.
The Aetolians began to claim that the Romans planned to retain garrisons in the "fetters of Greece" and replace the Macedonians as overlords of Greece.
The growing Aetolian hostility to the Romans was expressed openly to one of the ten Roman commissioners at a meeting of Delphian Amphictyony in 196 BC.
This conflict would ultimately lead to the Aetolian War in 191 BC.


The Freedom of the Greeks

At the Isthmian Games of May 196 BC, Flamininus proclaimed the 'Freedom of the Greeks' met with general rejoicing of those who were attending the Games.
The proclamation listed the free communities as follows: .
Nevertheless, the Romans kept garrisons in key strategic cities which had belonged to Macedon – Corinth, Chalcis and Demetrias – and the legions were not completely evacuated until 194 BC.
The extent of this grant of freedom was not entirely clear.
Although Flamininus' proclamation had included a list of the communities formerly under Philip's control to which it applied, the Romans quickly assumed (or were thrust into) the role of protector of Greek freedom more generally.
The rhetoric of Greek freedom was almost immediately employed by the Romans and their allies to justify diplomatic and military action elsewhere, with the War against Nabis of Sparta, which was undertaken in 195 BC, ostensibly for the sake of the freedom of Argos.


Seleucid conquest of Asia Minor
The initial background to the whole war had been the alliance of Antiochus III and Philip V against Ptolemy V and while the war had been raging in Greece, Antiochus III had completely defeated the Ptolemaic forces in Syria at the Battle of Panium.
Since Philip had surrendered his claim to the communities in Asia Minor that had formerly been under Ptolemaic control, Antiochus III now advanced into Asia Minor to take them over for himself.
The conflicts arising from this would lead to the outbreak of the Roman–Seleucid War in 192 BC.


See also
Military history of ancient Greece
Agesimbrotus


References


Sources


Primary
Polybius.
The Histories.
Vol.
XVI.
Diodorus Siculus.
Bibliotheca historica (Historical Library).
Vol.
XXVIII.
Livy.
Ab urbe condita Libri [History of Rome].
Vol.
XXXI–XXXIII.
Plutarch Life of Flamininus
Joannes Zonaras Extracts of History IX 15-17


Secondary
Erdkamp, Paul (1998).
Hunger and the sword: warfare and food supply in Roman Republican wars (264-30 B.C.).
Dutch monographs on ancient history and archaeology.
Vol.
20.
Gieben.
ISBN 978-90-50-63608-7.
Will, Edouard, L'histoire politique du monde hellénistique (Editions du Seuil, 2003 ed.), Tome II, pp.
121–178.
Green, Peter, Alexander to Actium, the historical evolution of the Hellenistic Age, 1993, pp.
305–311.
Kleu, Michael, Die Seepolitik Philipps V.
von Makedonien, Bochum, Verlag Dr.
Dieter Winkler, 2015.


Further reading
Hammond, N.
G.
L.; Griffith, G.
T.; Walbank, F.
W.
(1972).
A History of Macedonia.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Sherwin-White, Adrian N.
1984.
Roman foreign policy in the East 168 B.C.
to A.D.
1.
London: Duckworth.
Gruen, Erich S (1984).
The Hellenistic World and the Coming of Rome.
Berkeley; London: University of California Press.
Eckstein, Arthur M.
(2008).
Rome Enters the Greek East: From Anarchy to Hierarchy in the Hellenistic Mediterranean, 230-170 B.C.
Malden, MA.; Oxford: Blackwell Publishing.
Dmitriev, Sviatoslav (2011).
The Greek Slogan of Freedom and Early Roman Politics in Greece.
Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press.

Todd Nunes
Todd Nunes is an American screenwriter, a director of horror films, and novelist.
His movies include the holiday horror film All Through the House and his book series called The Slasher Universe.


Career
Todd Nunes wrote and directed his first horror full-length film Scary Larry in 2014, which starred his sister Ashley Mary Nunes.
In 2015 he wrote and directed the award-winning holiday horror film All Through The House, produced by The Readmond Company, which again starred Ashley Mary Nunes in the lead role and also featured Canadian horror actress Jessica Cameron.


Novels
Todd Nunes has published three novels in his Slasher Universe Book Series: Death Ward 13, Catholic Schoolgirls vs.
Inbreeds., and The Duke  All novels have received positive early reviews.



Screenplay Awards
Additionally, Nunes won the Best Screenplay award for Catholic Schoolgirls vs.
Inbreeds at the Hollywood Blood Horror Festival on August 5, 2024, won Best Action Horror Feature Script at  the Hollywood Horrorfest on Oct 6 2024, and Best Un-Produced Feature Screenplay at the Crimson Screen Horror Film Fest in 2025 .
Nunes' next project was to be Death Ward 13 (2017), a remake of the 1973 low budget horror film The Forgotten.
In 2017 it was in pre-production in Los Angeles and was to star former Misfits guitarist Doyle Wolfgang Von Frankenstein as the film's terrifying antagonist, The Duke.
The film has yet to be made.


Movie Awards
All Through The House, Official Nomination, "Top Ten", Online, The Golden Rake Award for Indie Horror (2016)
All Through The House, Best Director at the Hardcore Horror Fest, Chicago, IL (2016, won – Todd Nunes)
All Through The House, Best Actress at the Hardcore Horror Fest, Chicago, IL (2016, won – Jessica Cameron)
All Through The House, Best Slasher Award at the RIP Horror Film Festival, Hollywood, CA (2015)
All Through The House, Audience Choice Award at the RIP Horror Film Festival, Hollywood, CA (2015)
All Through The House, Best Editing Award at the RIP Horror Film Festival, Hollywood, CA (2015)
All Through The House, Best Local Feature Award at SFindie's "Another Hole in the Head" Phenomenal Film Festival, San Francisco, CA (2015)


Personal life
Nunes is the brother of horror actress Ashley Mary Nunes.


References


External links
Todd Nunes at IMDb

Kseniya Agafonova
Kseniya Mikhailovna Agafonova (Russian: Ксения Михайловна Агафонова; born 25 June 1983) is a Russian long-distance runner.
She finished fifth in 5000 metres at the 2007 World Athletics Final.
She was the 2009 winner of the Fukuoka International Cross Country meeting.
Agafonova competed at the 2009 World Championships in Athletics and she finished 15th in the 10,000 metres final.
She closed the year with an appearance at the 2009 IAAF World Athletics Final.


Personal bests
1500 metres - 4:11.10 min (2006)
3000 metres - 8:53.30 min (2007)
5000 metres - 15:23.17 min (2007)
10,000 metres - 31:47.14 min (2007)


References


External links
Kseniya Agafonova at World Athletics

Calico (company)
Calico Life Sciences LLC is an American biotechnology company with a focus on the biology of aging, attempting to devise interventions that may enable people to lead longer and healthier lives.
It is a subsidiary of Alphabet Inc.


History
Calico, short for the California Life Company, was announced on September 18, 2013, prior to Google's restructuring and was founded by former GV CEO Bill Maris.
In Google's 2013 Founders Letter, Larry Page described Calico as a company focused on "health, well-being, and longevity." It was incorporated into Alphabet with Google's other sister divisions in 2015.
The Calico team has included a number of pioneering researchers in the field of aging research, including members of the National Academy of Sciences, Cynthia Kenyon and Daniel E.
Gottschling.
Some of the company’s earliest employees included the geneticist David Botstein, and cancer drug developer Robert L.
Cohen, Eric Verdin, CEO of The Buck Institute for Research on Aging, served as a consultant to the Calico team.
At the end of 2017 and the beginning of 2018, Calico lost two top scientists; in December 2017 Hal Barron, MD, its head of R&D, left for GlaxoSmithKline, and in March 2018 chief computing officer Daphne Koller, who was leading their computational biology efforts, left to pursue a venture in applying machine learning techniques to drug design.


Partnerships
In September 2014, Calico and AbbVie announced an R&D collaboration focused on aging and age-related diseases such as neurodegeneration and cancer.
Working together with AbbVie, Calico pursues discovery-stage research and development.
AbbVie provides scientific and clinical development support and lends its expertise to commercialization activities.
To date, the companies have committed to invest more than $1 billion into the collaboration.
In 2015, the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard announced a partnership with Calico to "advance research on age-related diseases and therapeutics", a further partnership also was announced with the Buck Institute for Research on Aging.
Also in 2015, Calico announced a partnership with QB3 based on researching the biology of aging and identifying potential therapeutics for age-related diseases and one with AncestryDNA based on conducting research into the genetics of human lifespan.
In October 2023, Nature, a weekly British scientific journal, published preclinical research findings that showed ABBV-CLS-484, a PTPN2/N1 phosphatase inhibitor being co-developed by AbbVie and Calico, provokes a potent dual response in cancer and immune cells only in mice.


Reception
When Calico was formed, Google did not disclose many details, such as whether the company would focus on biology or information technology.
The company issued press releases about research partnerships, but not details regarding the results of its research or the specifics of what it was working on.
This led to frustration by researchers regarding Calico's secrecy and questions as to whether Calico had produced any useful scientific advancements.
Calico said the business' purpose was to focus on long-term science not expected to garner results for 10 or more years, leaving nothing to report on in its first five years.


See also
Verily
Altos Labs
SENS Research Foundation
Human Longevity
Life extension


References

Highland Wildlife Management Area
Highland Wildlife Management Area is a 14,283-acre (22.3 sq mi; 57.8 km2) Wildlife Management Area in Highland County, Virginia.
 It consists of three separate tracts of land, centered on Jack Mountain, Bullpasture Mountain, and Little Doe Hill; elevations in the area range from 1,800 to 4,390 feet (550 to 1,340 m) above sea level.
With the exception of an 80-acre (32 ha) clearing on Jack Mountain that was once used as summer pasture land, the area is nearly completely covered by upland hardwood forest, consisting mainly of oaks and hickories.
The Bullpasture River flows through the area and is regularly stocked with trout.
The area is carefully managed to enhance wildlife habitat, including maintaining small clearings as open space for wildlife, and encouraging the growth of mast-producing trees to provide food.
Highland Wildlife Management Area is owned and maintained by the Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries.
The area offers a variety of exciting outdoor activities for all to enjoy, including hunting, trapping, fishing, hiking, and horseback riding—perfect for adventure seekers and nature lovers alike and primitive camping.
Access for persons 17 years of age or older requires a valid hunting or fishing permit, or a WMA access permit.


See also
List of Virginia Wildlife Management Areas


References


External links
Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries: Highland Wildlife Management Area

Edward Hemingway
Edward Alexander Hemingway (29 April 1902 – 2 May 1963) was a British journalist, animal welfare activist and opponent of hunting.


Biography
Hemingway lived at Windsor as a young boy where he became attached to deer.
His uncle was the headmaster of the Royal School within the grounds of Windsor and he lived with him for a while.
He worked as a local councillor in Minehead and as a freelance journalist.
In 1936, he established a naturist club, the North Devon Club of Beaworthy.
It is considered to be one of the oldest nudist colonies in England.

Hemingway lived at Sandymount, The Ball in Minehead.
 He was chairman of the Urban Council's Finance and Staff Committees.
He suffered from a weak heart.
In 1944, he was fined £20 by a National Service officer for refusing a medical examination.
He married Catherine Freda Firminger in 1946.
They had one daughter Kathleen Margaret Hemingway.
Hemingway's cousin was the American writer Ernest Hemingway.


League Against Cruel Sports
Hemingway was chairman of the League Against Cruel Sports for 23 years.
He was the editor of the League's journal.
 In 1958, Hemingway and Joseph Sharp secretary of the League purchased the freehold for Slowley Woods, near Luxborough which was the first League Against Cruel Sports sanctuary "for wild animals, particular those that are hunted".
In total, he stated that the League had purchased around 200 acres of land on Exmoor near Dunster to stop hunting.
In 1959, it was reported that Hemingway and the League were using a "secret system" which was sent to him by a Scottish estate worker to confuse stag hunters from finding deer where they were expected.
Hemingway blamed royal patronage for allowing hunting to remain legal.
In 1961, he criticized Prince Philip for attending a tiger shoot in India.


National Abolition of Deer Hunting Committee
Hemingway was chairman of the National Abolition of Deer Hunting Committee.
In August 1957, the Committee employed a retired undercover detective inspector to follow various deer hunts in the west of England.
He used a tape-recorder and camera to obtain evidence.
Hemingway commented that "the records of his investigation portray scenes more reminiscent of a lynching than the end of a well-conducted sport".
The report alleged that a stag was cut open and the liver and kidney were sliced and given to young children riders to be "blooded" and that stags were being knifed below the heart and cut open to remove the liver which was given to local people.
The report was planned to be published as a booklet and given to MPs on the day of the Protection of Deer Bill's second reading in 1958.
In 1959, the Committee released a 25 minute film on deer hunting.
The film took two years to produce and included footage of hunting scenes, including the chase, kill and cutting of dead deer.
Frederick Messer performed the commentary.
It was shown to MPs in the House of Commons in June 1959 by Messer to support the Protection of Deer Bill.
Joseph Sharp was the secretary of the Committee.


Assault allegations
In 1927, it was alleged that Ernest C.
Rawle a farmer from Bossington assaulted Hemingway in a refreshment tent at Stoke Pero Races by holding his throat and pushing him to the ground.
Rawle is alleged to have targeted Hemingway over his anti-hunting views.
Rawle stated that he did argue with Hemingway but denied catching him by the throat.
The bench concluded that a technical assault had been committed and Rawle was bound over for six months for a sum of £5.
In 1928, Hemingway visited the Metropole Hotel in Minehead to photograph a polo event for a newspaper.
He was alleged to have been the victim of an assault from several army officers who dragged him from the hotel and threw him into the sea.
It was alleged that the officers were aware of Hemingway's anti-stag hunting views which they disagreed with.
The defendants admitted to throwing Hemingway into the sea but the charge of assault was dismissed as there was lack of evidence for maliciously causing grievous bodily harm or "intent to disable".
The evidence of identification was also considered non-satisfactory.
The defendants thanked Hemingway for asking the court to withdraw the case, apologized for their poor conduct and offered to pay his costs and expenses.


Death
Hemingway collapsed at a League Against Cruel Sports conference in London in 1963.
He died at his home in Minehead, aged 61.


References

Beverly Brine
Beverly Mae Brine (born June 19, 1961) is an investment counsellor and former political figure in New Brunswick, Canada.
She represented Albert in the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick as a Confederation of Regions member from 1991 to 1994 and as an independent from 1994 to 1995.
She was born in Moncton, New Brunswick and educated there.
After disputing Danny Cameron's leadership of the party, both Brine and colleague Brent Taylor left the Confederation of Regions caucus in 1994 and did not run for reelection in 1995.


References
List of Women MLAs, New Brunswick Legislative Library

Transmission Arts
Transmission Arts, also sometimes known as Radio art, are defined "as a multiplicity of practices and media working with the idea of transmission or the physical properties of the Electromagnetic spectrum (radio).
Transmission works often manifest themselves in participatory live art or time-based art, and include, but are not limited to, sound, video, light, installation, and performance."
By their very nature, transmission artworks engage the public, and respond to radio and broadcast histories and materials.
Organizations such as Wave Farm facilitate artist exploration of transmission-based creativity.


See also
Audium (theater)
Acoustic ecology
Broadcasting
Electronic music
Fluxus
Installation art
Intermedia
List of sound artists
NIME
Noise Music
Performance art
Radio art
Slow-scan television
Sonification
Sound art
Sound installation
Sound map
Sound poetry
Sound sculpture
Soundscape
Soundscape ecology
Visual music


References

Father There Is Only One 3
Father There Is Only One 3 (Spanish: Padre no hay más que uno 3) is a 2022 Spanish Christmas comedy film directed and starred by Santiago Segura.
It is a sequel to box-office hits Father There Is Only One and Father There Is Only One 2.
The cast is completed by the likes of Toni Acosta, Carlos Iglesias, and Loles León.


Plot
The plot tracks the developments in the García Loyola family as Christmas looms in, including the kids breaking a Nativity scene figurine and the eldest sibling breaking up with her boyfriend.


Cast


Production
The film is a Bowfinger International Pictures, Atresmedia Cine and Padre no hay más que uno 3 AIE production, with the association of Sony Pictures International Productions and the participation of Atresmedia and Prime Video.
Filming began in the Madrid's Plaza Mayor in December 2021.
Carlos Iglesias replaced Antonio Resines (originally cast as the family's grandfather) owing to the latter's December 2021 hospitalization from COVID-19.


Release
Distributed by Sony Pictures Entertainment Iberia, the film was theatrically released in Spain on 14 July 2022.
It grossed €745,000 (over 108,000 admissions) in its opening day, making the best debut for a Spanish film in the domestic market since 2015, and becoming the highest-grossing Spanish release in 2022 already after its first (4-day) weekend in theatres.


Reception
Fausto Fernández of Fotogramas rated the film 3 out of 5 stars assessing it to be "a comedy with a lot of angel", while pointing out that it was short in cameos.
Carlos Marañón of Cinemanía rated the film 2 out of 5 stars, deeming the third installment of the saga to be "flat, with some steep, colorful tacks, such as the small tribute to La gran familia".
Raquel Hernández Luján of HobbyConsolas scored 50 out of 100 points ("so-so"), criticising the "blatant product placement, the lack of substance in the story and the genre clichés", while drawing out the 2-year-old addition to the ensemble cast (featuring in some of the most endearing moments) as the best thing about the film.
Javier Ocaña of El País  wrote that the "insignificant" film features "a monotonous rhythm, modest performances, little or no humor in the situations and no comic tempo in the dialogues, in the replies and counter-replies", being "simply as indolent as any Spanish production for children of the 1970s and 1980s".


See also
List of Spanish films of 2022
List of Christmas films


References


External links
Father There Is Only One 3 at IMDb

Democratic Solidarity Party
The Democratic Solidarity Party (Partido Solidaridad Democrática) was a political liberal party in Cuba.
Although changes to the Cuban constitution in 1992 decriminalized the right to form political parties other than the Communist Party of Cuba, these parties are not permitted to campaign or engage in any public political activities on the island.
The Democratic Solidarity party described itself as "an organization from within Cuba promoting democracy and the respect for human rights by the peaceful route." The last President of the party was Fernando Sánchez López.
The party was a full member of Liberal International.
It merged with the National Liberal Party of Cuba in February 2014 to form the Cuban Liberal Solidarity Party (Spanish: Partido Solidaridad Liberal Cubano, PSLC).


Membership
In February 2007 the following persons were elected to the national executive committee of PSD:

Fernando Sánchez López, President.
Antonio Torres Justo, Vice president pro tempore and executive secretary
Carlos Aitcheson Guzmán, international relations pro tempore
Marcos Fiallo Samper, Finances
Ignacio Padrón Navarro, Organizer
Osmar Laffita, public relacions and spokesperson
Orestes Cartaya Lirio, youth issues
Juan de Dios Duke, human rights and attention to political prisoners
Raúl Chávez Valdivia, Representative of the oriental provinces Granma, Santiago de Cuba, Guantánamo.
Wilber Hernández Acosta, epresentantive of the oriental provinces Ciego de Avila, Camagüey, Las Tunas, Holguín
Rolando Delgado, epresentantive of the occidental provinces
Jorge Verrier Rodríguez, epresentantive of the central provinces
Rafael Arias Carmona, workers and farmers issues
Adolfo Fernández Sainz, international relations, imprisoned in the Black Spring of 2003
Margarita Cienfuegos, women's secretary
Provincial delegates

Rolando Delgado Ramos, Pinar del Río
Ignacio Padrón Navarro, Havana province
Hermes Diago Gómez, Matanzas
Ricardo Filgueira Fajardo, Cienfuegos
Juan de Dios Ortueta, Villa Clara
Rubén Mulén Torno, S.Spíritus
Israel Savigñon Revé, Camagüey
Amauri Peña Rodríguez, Las Tunas
Raúl Chávez Valdivia.
Granma
Eidy Graña Toledo, Holguín
Dr.
Arnoldo de la Cruz Bañobre, Santiago de Cuba.
Argos Alejandro Matos Ricardo, Havana city


See also

List of political parties in Cuba
Contributions to liberal theory
Liberalism worldwide
List of liberal parties
Liberal democracy
Liberalism in Cuba


References


External links

Wolfgang (2025 film)
Wolfgang (Catalan: Wolfgang (extraordinari)) is a 2025 Spanish comedy-drama film directed by Javier Ruiz Caldera from a screenplay by Laia Aguilar, Carmen Marfà, Yago Alonso, and Valentina Viso based on the novel by Laia Aguilar.
It stars Jordi Catalán, Miki Esparbé, Àngels Gonyalons, Berto Romero, and Anna Castillo.


Plot
Upon the sudden death of his mother Ingrid, autistic and high-IQ boy Wolfgang is forced to live with his father Carles.
Wolfgang dreams about becoming a master pianist and joining the Grimald Academy in Paris, following on his mother's footsteps.


Cast

Carlos Cuevas and J.A.
Bayona appear in cameo roles playing themselves.


Production
The film is a Nostromo Pictures, Lo Vi Films, Telecinco Cinema, and Wolfgang Película AIE production, and it had the co-production of 3Cat, and the participation of Mediaset España, Movistar Plus+ and Mediterráneo Mediaset España Group.
It was shot in Paris and Barcelona.


Release
The film was released theatrically in Spain on 14 March 2025 by Universal Pictures in 346 theatres.
It finished first in its opening weekend with €657,000 and 91,700 admissions.


Reception
Pablo Vázquez of Fotogramas rated the film 3 out of 5 stars, praising its honest "crowd-pleasing" tidiness and [the use of] Carlos Cuevas as running gag.
Quim Casas of El Periódico de Catalunya rated the film 3 out of 5 stars, describing it as "a careful attempt at making dramatic and popular cinema in Catalan".


See also
List of Spanish films of 2025


References

George Nugent-Grenville, 2nd Baron Nugent
George Nugent-Grenville, 2nd Baron Nugent of Carlanstown, GCMG (31 December 1788 – 26 November 1850), was an Irish politician.


Life
A younger son of George Nugent-Temple, 1st Marquess of Buckingham, by Lady Mary Elizabeth Nugent, only daughter and heiress of Robert Nugent, 1st Earl Nugent, he was born on 31 December 1788.
His mother was created a baroness of the kingdom of Ireland in 1800, with remainder to her second son; and on her death (16 March 1813) he consequently succeeded to the peerage.
Nugent was educated at Brasenose College, Oxford, and in 1810 received the honorary degree of D.C.L.
from the university.
He was Whig Member of Parliament for Buckingham, 1810–1812.
This was a rotten borough controlled by the Grenvilles.
At the general election of 1812 Nugent was returned to Parliament for the borough of Aylesbury; but in 1818 he was in some danger of losing his seat in consequence of his brother Richard, then by courtesy the Marquess of Buckingham, having joined the ministry.
Nugent stood in his own interest, however, and was returned.
He fought another successful contest in 1831, and remained one of the members for Aylesbury until the dissolution in 1832.
In November 1830 Nugent was made one of the Lords of the Treasury, but he resigned this position in August 1832, to become Lord High Commissioner of the Ionian Islands.
This office he retained for three years, returning to England with the Grand Cross of St.
Michael and St.
George.
He again offered himself for Aylesbury in 1837 and 1839, but was defeated on both occasions; and in 1843, when he stood, with the reformer George Thompson, for Southampton, he sustained a third defeat.
On reappearing at Aylesbury in 1847 he was returned.
Nugent was an extreme Whig, or a whig-radical, in politics.
He was a strong supporter of Queen Caroline of Brunswick, and he visited Spain as a partisan of the Spanish Liberals against the Carlists.
In the session of 1848 Nugent moved for leave to bring in a bill abolishing the separate imprisonment in gaols of persons committed for trial, but the motion was lost.
During the same session he advocated the abolition of capital punishment.
In 1849 he voted for limiting the powers of the Habeas Corpus (Ireland) Suspension Bill, and also supported a measure for the further repeal of Penal Laws.

He was a member of the Reform Club and the Athenaeum Club.
Nugent died on 26 November 1850, at his residence in Buckinghamshire.


Works
In 1812 Nugent published Portugal, a Poem then in 1829 Oxford and Locke, which defended the expulsion of Locke from the University of Oxford against the censures of Dugald Stewart.
Nugent's sympathetic Memorials of John Hampden appeared in 1832.
The work was favourably reviewed by Thomas Babington Macaulay in the Edinburgh Review, and adversely by Robert Southey in the Quarterly Review, resulting in a flurry of correspondence.
Legends of the Library at Lillies (his family seat) appeared in 1832: "from the fireside of the...
little oak library the following legends proceed." It was followed by the two-volume travelogue Lands Classical and Sacred in 1845–6.
Nugent also wrote pamphlets on political, social, and ecclesiastical subjects.


Family

Nugent married, 6 September 1813, Anne Lucy, second daughter of Major-General the Hon.
Vere Poulett.
She died without issue in 1848, and the barony became extinct on the death of Nugent.



References

Attribution
 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, George Barnett (1890).
"Grenville, George Nugent (1788-1850)".
In Stephen, Leslie; Lee, Sidney (eds.).
Dictionary of National Biography.
Vol.
23.
London: Smith, Elder & Co.



External links
Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Lord Nugent

Banda, Madhya Pradesh
Banda(बंडा) is city and a Nagar panchayat in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh in India.
Banda also a tehsil headquarter in Sagar.


Geography
Banda is located at  24.04°N 78.96°E﻿ / 24.04; 78.96.
Banda has an average elevation of 508 metres (1669 ft).


Demographics


Population
The Banda Nagar Panchayat has population of 30,923 of which 15,962 are males while 14,961 are females as Census India 2011.


Sex ratio
Banda Nagar Panchayat, female sex ratio is of 937 against state average of 931.
Moreover the child sex ratio in Banda is around 991 compared to Madhya Pradesh state average of 918.


Literacy rate
Banda city is 82.80% higher than the state average of 69.32%.
In Banda, male literacy is around 89.75% while the female literacy rate is 75.31%.


Places of interest

Neminagar Jain Tirth is in Banda tehsil located 30 km from Sagar on National Highway NH-86.
It was built in the name of Aacharya Shri 108 Nemisagar ji maharaj by the blessings of his disciple aacharya 108 shri dayasagar ji maharaj.
This temple has one choubisi (24 tirthankars god on 24 different altars), one levitated trikal choubisi (Lords of time passes, the time now and time to be), and a navagraha mandir (Lords of nine planets).


Transportation
Banda is well Connected by Roads.
Sagar is 35 km away from Banda.
Daily bus service is available there.


See also
Banda Assembly
Shahgarh


References


External links
Pin Code

Caroline Thompson
Caroline Thompson (born April 23, 1956) is an American novelist, screenwriter, film director, and producer.
She wrote the screenplays for the Tim Burton-directed films Edward Scissorhands and Corpse Bride and the Burton-produced The Nightmare Before Christmas.
She co-wrote the story for Edward Scissorhands and co-adapted a new stage version of the film with director and choreographer Matthew Bourne.
Thompson also adapted the screenplay for the film version of Wicked Lovely, a bestselling fantasy series, in 2011, but the production was put into turnaround.
She directed Black Beauty (1994); Buddy (1997), which she also wrote; and the television film Snow White: The Fairest of Them All (2001), also as producer and co-writer.


Early life and education
Thompson was born in Washington, D.C., the daughter of Bettie Marshall (née Warner), a teacher, and Thomas Carlton Thompson, Jr., a lawyer.
She received her early education in Washington.
She later moved to Cambridge, Massachusetts to attend Radcliffe College, and eventually graduated from Amherst College in 1978 with a degree in English and classic literature.


Career
Thompson moved to Los Angeles, supporting herself as a freelance book reviewer and writer.
In 1983, she published a novel First Born which director Penelope Spheeris chose to adapt into a film, and from whom she started learning scriptwriting while writing the drafts of the film's screenplay.
Though the movie was never made, the project inspired her to pursue a career as a screenwriter.
Tim Burton was impressed with the novel, which was "about a monster fetus".
He felt First Born had the same psychological elements he wanted to showcase in Edward Scissorhands, and hired her to write its screenplay as a spec script.
Her other works include Snow White: The Fairest of Them All, The Secret Garden, Buddy, Black Beauty, Homeward Bound: The Incredible Journey, and The Addams Family.
 Though she is best known for having written the screenplays for Edward Scissorhands and The Nightmare Before Christmas, she has had more than a dozen movies made, including City of Ember and The Addams Family.
From the above, she directed Black Beauty (1994) as her directorial debut, followed by Snow White in 2001 for TV and Buddy.
She was the producer for Snow White and the associate producer for The Secret Garden and Edward Scissorhands.
Her screenplay for Wicked Lovely, intended to be directed by Mary Harron, was in turnaround in 2011.
Thompson was the first woman to be presented with the Distinguished Screenwriter Award at the 2011 Austin Film Festival.


Personal life
Her first marriage was to Henry  Bromell, a fellow novelist and screenwriter.
She later married Steve Nicolaides, a film and TV producer.


Filmography

As herself

Prop Culture (2020) episode: "Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas"
The Holiday Movies That Made Us  (2020) episode: "Nightmare Before Christmas"


Bibliography
First born, Published by Coward-McCann, 1983.
ISBN 0-698-11224-5.
Edward Scissorhands, by Thompson & Tim Burton.
Published by distributed by Cinestore, 1990.
The Secret Garden, Adapted by Thompson.
Published by s.n., 1991.
The Addams Family: A Novelization, by Elizabeth Faucher, Thompson, & Larry Wilson.
Published by Scholastic Inc., 1991.
ISBN 0-590-45541-9.
Tim Burton's Nightmare Before Christmas: A Novel, by Daphne Skinner, Thompson, Michael McDowell, & Tim Burton.
Published by Puffin Books, 1994.
ISBN 0-14-037121-4.
Snow White, by Thompson & Julie Hickson.
Published by s.n, 2000.
Tim Burton's Nightmare Before Christmas: The Film, the Art, the Vision, by Frank Thompson, Tim Burton.
Published by Disney Editions, 2002.
ISBN 0-7868-5378-6.
Caroline Thompson – Page 179.
Salisbury, Mark; Burton, Tim (2006).
Burton on Burton.
Faber and Faber.
ISBN 0-571-22926-3.


References


External links
Caroline Thompson at IMDb
Caroline Thompson Video Interview

Rondotia
Rondotia is a genus of moths of the family Bombycidae erected by Frederic Moore in 1885.


Selected species
Rondotia diaphana (Hampson, [1893])
Rondotia lineata Leech, 1898
Rondotia melanoleuca Cao & Liu, 2024
Rondotia menciana Moore, 1885


References

1986 Grand Prix German Open
The 1986 German Open, also known by its sponsored name Ebel German Open, was a men's tennis tournament of the 1986 Nabisco Grand Prix and played on outdoor red clay courts.
It was the 77th edition of the event.
It took place at the Am Rothenbaum in Hamburg, West Germany, from 15 September through 21 September 1986.
Fourth-seeded Henri Leconte won the singles title.


Finals


Singles

 Henri Leconte defeated  Miloslav Mečíř, 6–2, 5–7, 6–4, 6–2

It was Leconte's 2nd singles title of the year and the 6th of his career.


Doubles

 Emilio Sánchez /  Sergio Casal defeated  Boris Becker /  Eric Jelen, 6–4, 6–1


References


External links
Official website
Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) tournament profile
International Federation (ITF) tournament editions details Archived 2016-03-22 at the Wayback Machine

Jhostynxon García
Jhostynxon Alirio García ( joh-STIN-sohn, born December 11, 2002) nicknamed "The Password", is a Venezuelan professional baseball outfielder for the Boston Red Sox of Major League Baseball (MLB).
He signed with the Red Sox as an international free agent in 2019, and made his MLB debut in 2025.


Career
On July 2, 2019, García signed with the Boston Red Sox as an international free agent.
He did not play in a game in 2020 due to the cancellation of the minor league season because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
He was assigned to the DSL Red Sox Blue on July 10, 2021, and posted a .281/.424/.481 slash line with 32 strikeouts in 135 at-bats.
García spent the 2022 campaign with the Rookie-League FCL Red Sox, playing in 31 games and batting .188/.328/.366 with three home runs, 17 RBI, and four stolen bases.
He was promoted to the Single-A Salem Red Sox on June 1, 2023, playing in 73 games and slashing .230/.329/.374 with four home runs, 24 RBI, and nine stolen bases.
García was added to the Boston Red Sox' 40-man roster on March 15, 2024, before being placed on the 7-day injured list with a left hamstring strain.
After being activated from the injured list on May 5, García was promoted to the High-A Greenville Drive on May 29 and hit for 44 runs, 65 hits, 16 home runs and a .311 batting average before being promoted from Greenville Drive to the Double-A Portland Sea Dogs on August 13.
He culminated the season with a .263 batting average during his time at Portland, and slashed an overall .286/.356/.536 for the year with 78 runs, 66 RBI, 23 home runs and 17 stolen bases across a total 412 at-bats in 107 games played.
He was activated on the 40-man Boston Red Sox roster on March 6, 2025 to protect him from the Rule 5 draft, before being optioned back to Portland to begin the 2025 season.
He began the season by posting a .256/.355/.393 slash line with 19 runs off 30 hits, 3 home runs, and 29 strikeouts in 117 at-bats before being promoted to the Triple-A Worcester Red Sox on May 20, where he slashed .417/.440/.708 with 5 runs, 10 hits, 2 home runs and only 5 strikeouts in his first six games.
García was selected for the 2025 MLB All-Star Futures Game to play for the American League team, and struck out twice in his two plate appearances.
On August 21, García was recalled to the Boston Red Sox from Worcester after outfielder Wilyer Abreu was placed on the 10-day injured list with a calf sprain.
García was assigned uniform number 51, and travelled to New York City to join the team in a four-game series against the New York Yankees.
He made his major-league debut in the second game of series, starting in right field for the game of August 22; he went 0-for-3 at the plate with a walk.
On August 28, García recorded a double in the 5th inning of Boston's final game of a four-game series against the Baltimore Orioles for the first hit of his major league career.


Personal life
His younger brother, Johanfran García, nicknamed "The Username", is a professional baseball catcher, designated hitter, and first baseman who signed with the Red Sox as an international free agent in 2022.


References


External links
Career statistics from MLB · ESPN · Baseball Reference · Fangraphs · Baseball Reference (Minors) · Retrosheet

Ward Six
Ward Six (Serbo-Croatian: Paviljon VI) is a 1978 Yugoslav drama film directed by Lucian Pintilie, an adaptation of Anton Chekhov's short story Ward No.
6.
It competed in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1979 Cannes Film Festival.
 


Cast
Slobodan Perović as Dr.
Andrei Yefimich Rabin
Zoran Radmilović as Ivan Gromov
Slavko Simić
Ljuba Tadić
Dragomir Čumić
Dušan Vuisić
Pavle Vuisić as Nikita
Stevo Žigon


References


External links
Ward Six at IMDb

Kleren Maken de Man
Kleren Maken de Man  is a 1957 Dutch comedy film directed by Georg Jacoby.


Cast
Kees Brusse	...
	Verzekeringsagent Hans
Annet Nieuwenhuyzen	...
	Ellen
Mimi Boesnach	...
	Burgerjuffrouw
Andrea Domburg	...
	Voormalige vriendin Peter
Johan Kaart	...
	Speurder
Rijk de Gooyer	...
	Peter
Guus Oster
Jan Retèl
Cees Laseur
Cruys Voorbergh
Hans Tiemeyer
Leo de Hartogh


External links
Kleren Maken de Man at IMDb

Daphna Ziman
Daphna Edwards Ziman is an Israeli American philanthropist, author, film producer, and director.
She was the president of the television network Cinémoi.
She was married to Richard Ziman.
Ziman was a top fundraiser for the 2008 Hillary Clinton presidential campaign.
In 2016, Ziman listed her Beverly Hills home for $40 million.
She authored the novel The Gray Zone which features a protagonist who was orphaned as a child.


References


External links
Daphna Ziman at IMDb

Super Junior D&E The 1st Asia Tour
Super Junior D&E Asia Tour 2015 -Present- is the first Asia tour held by Super Junior-D&E to promote their first Korean extended play The Beat Goes On that was released last March under SM Entertainment.
 Kicks off in Taipei on June 6, going through 4 Asia cities including Taipei, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Bangkok for 5 performances.


Set list


Tour dates


Personnel
Artist: Super Junior-D&E; Donghae and Eunhyuk
Organizer tour: SM Entertainment
Promotor tour: Dream Maker


References

Mariano Friedick
Mariano Friedick (born January 9, 1975, in Tarzana, California) is an American former professional cyclist.


Major results


References


External links
Mariano Friedick at UCI
Mariano Friedick at Cycling Archives
Mariano Friedick at ProCyclingStats
Mariano Friedick at Olympedia

The Blood Ship
The Blood Ship is a 1927 American silent drama film directed by George B.
Seitz and starring Hobart Bosworth, Jacqueline Logan, and Richard Arlen.
It is based on the 1922 novel The Blood Ship by Norman Springer, which was later remade by Seitz as the 1931 sound film Shanghaied Love.


Plot
A disgraced sea captain signs on as a hand on a cargo ship, which turns out to be captained by the tyrannical man who ruined his reputation.
The other crewmen have mostly been shanghaied aboard and are kept in line by the captain and his brutal first mate.
The former captain begins to plot a mutiny to take control of the ship from their brutal regime.


Cast
Hobart Bosworth as Jim Newman
Jacqueline Logan as Mary Swope Newman
Richard Arlen as John Shreve
Walter James as Capt.
Angus Swope
Fred Kohler as First Mate Fitz
James Bradbury Sr.
as The Knitting Swede
Arthur Rankin as Nils
Syd Crossley as Cockney Bouncer
Frank Hemphill as Second Mate
Chappell Dossett as Rev.
Richard Deaken
Blue Washington as Negro


Preservation
The seventh and final reel of the film was thought to be lost until 2007.
The final reel was ultimately found and the film was screened in its entirety on October 11, 2007.
The Blood Ship was preserved by the Academy Film Archive, in conjunction with Sony Pictures, in 2007.


References


Bibliography
Goble, Alan.
The Complete Index to Literary Sources in Film.
Walter de Gruyter, 1999.


External links

The Blood Ship at IMDb

Worrorra language
Worrorra, also written Worora and other variants, and also known as Western Worrorran, is a moribund Australian Aboriginal language of northern Western Australia.
It encompasses a number of dialects, which are spoken by a group of people known as the Worrorra people.
It is one of a group of Worrorran languages, the other two being Wunambal and Ngarinyin.


Dialects
Worrorra is a dialect cluster; Bowern (2011) recognises five languages: Worrorra proper, Unggumi, Yawijibaya, Unggarranggu, and Umiida.
McGregor and Rumsey (2009) include the above dialects and also include Winyjarrumi (Winjarumi), describing Worrorra as a non-Pama-Nyungan language of the Worrorran group of languages known properly as western Worrorran.
An alleged Maialnga language was a reported clan name of Worrorra proper that could not be confirmed with speakers.


Notable people
Elkin Umbagai was a translator between English and Worrorra.


Phonology

A nasal occurring before a  stop consonant, is then realised as a prenasalized voiced stop sound (ex.
[ŋɡ]).
/r/ can be heard as a trill or a flap, and is typically only voiced when preceding a sonorant, voiced phoneme, or lateral consonant.
Elsewhere, it is voiceless as [r̥], or can be heard in free variation.
/j/ can also be heard as a fricative sound [ç] in word-initial positions.

Long vowel sounds are noted as follows: /iː, ɛː, uː, ɔː, ɑː/.
In between consonant clusters, an epenthetic vowel sound [ʉ̆] ~ [ɨ̆] occurs when breaking them up.
Sometimes it can also be heard as a central vowel sound [ɨ].


Sign language
The Worora have (or at one point had) a signed form of their language, used for speaking to kin in certain taboo relationships, but it is not clear from records that it was particularly well developed compared to other Australian Aboriginal sign languages.


References


Further reading
Clendon, Mark (2014).
Worrorra: A language of the north-west Kimberley coast.
University of Adelaide.
doi:10.20851/worrorra.
hdl:2440/84235.
ISBN 978-1-922064-59-2.

2015 Japanese military legislation
In 2015, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe and the ruling Liberal Democratic Party promoted legislation, passed on 19 September 2015, despite some public opposition, to allow the country's military to participate in foreign conflicts, overturning its previous policy of fighting only in self-defense.
Since the Japanese constitution allows the Japanese military to act only in self-defense, the legislation reinterpreted the relevant passages to allow the military to operate overseas for "collective self-defense" for allies.
The legislation came into effect on 29 March 2016.


Background
Article 9 of the Japanese Constitution prohibits use of military force internationally.
On 15 May 2014, an advisory panel formed by Abe recommended that Article 9 be reinterpreted to allow a broader use of military power.
On 1 July, the government announced that it had devised a policy dubbed "collective self defense" to allow it to use armed force to defend its allies.
Abe had originally proposed to give the military even more leeway, but resistance from lawmakers in both parties of the governing coalition led to softening of the language.
With Abe's coalition a majority in both houses of parliament, the language was expected to be passed into law later in the year.
In February 2015, Abe said that he planned to begin work to amend Article 9 after the 2016 parliamentary elections.
Abe cited the beheading of two Japanese hostages by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (commonly known as ISIS) in his goal of allowing Japan's military to intervene overseas to protect Japanese citizens.


Legislative history

On 26 May 2015, the House of Representatives, the lower chamber of the National Diet, began debate on a package of eleven bills, granting the military the power to engage in foreign combat in limited circumstances.
It is called the "Peace and Security Preservation Legislation" by its sponsors.
Debate in the Diet had been scheduled to end in June, but a final vote was later delayed to September.
On 16 July 2015, the House of Representatives passed the legislation, the final version of which allowed the military to provide logistical support to allies overseas as well as armed support in circumstances when inaction would endanger "the lives and survival of the Japanese nation." The vote was passed on the strength of the majority coalition of LDP and Komeito lawmakers; members of the opposition boycotted the vote in protest.
After passage of the bill in the House of Representatives, the House of Councillors, the upper house of the National Diet, debated the bill for two months.
It passed in committee on 17 September in a contentious vote in which opposition lawmakers attempted to restrain the committee chairman physically.
Then, it moved to the full house for a final vote.
Early in the morning on 19 September, the bill passed the full house after a delayed vote in which opposition members used various delaying tactics to draw out the process.
In an effort to delay passage until after the Silver Week holiday, Yukio Edano of the Democratic Party of Japan spoke for 104 minutes (having planned to speak for four hours) in support of a no confidence motion against the cabinet, and Tarō Yamamoto of the People's Life Party attempted to delay voting by walking very slowly to the ballot box.


Effects
The legislation has been effective since 29 March 2016.
One of the first applications of the legislation was to authorize the Self-Defense Forces peacekeeping team in South Sudan to aid UN or foreign countries' personnel under attack in the country.
While the legislation is expected to allow Japanese and US forces to work more closely together, such as by forming integrated naval task forces to repel an invasion of Japan, Defense Minister Gen Nakatani denied that Japan would always come to the aid of the US, and Prime Minister Abe specifically ruled out the possibility of extending SDF support for the coalition fighting the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
It is reported that Tokyo is sending JGSDF officers to participate with the Multinational Force and Observers in April 2019 by using the new law as a basis.
In December 2022 the Kishida government announced a $320bn increase in military spending, due in part to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.


Public opposition

The legislation was controversial within Japan.
According to some polls conducted in July, at the time of the legislation's debate in the House of Representatives, two thirds of the Japanese public opposed the bills.
A protest on 16 July drew an estimated 100,000 people to the National Diet building.
Later protests in September ahead of the House of Councillors vote drew crowds of 10,000 to 30,000.
The Abe governments's approval rating fell below its disapproval rating after the House of Representatives passed the legislation in July 2015 and again after it finally approved it in September.
A slight majority of poll respondents in September thought that Japan's deterrent capabilities would not be strengthened by the legislation.
Much opposition to the legislation centered on its alleged questionable constitutionality.
Repeated surveys of experts in Japan's constitution showed that more than 90% of those surveyed believed it was unconstitutional, and in June, Waseda University professor Yasuo Hasebe, in an address to the Diet with two other constitutional scholars, said that it would "considerably damage the legal stability" of Japan.
After its passage, it was expected to be challenged in court, although Japan's legal system has rarely ruled against the government in security matters.
 A revision of the Japanese constitution to revise Article 9 would require a national referendum, which perceived current public opposition to Abe and the legislation made it thought to be unlikely to succeed in the short term.
In defense of the bills, Nihon University professor Akira Momochi argued that the legislation was in keeping with the United Nations Charter, saying that the right to self-defense is "a given for international laws, and that supersedes national laws."


See also
Coalition of the willing – Japan's military was involved in the conflict in Iraq
Japanese Iraq Reconstruction and Support Group


References


External links
Japan's Fistfights and Foreign Wars by Angela Carlton / Midwest Diplomacy
Yuki's Take / Security legislation points to a bigger problem By Yuki Tatsumi / Special to The Japan News (The Yomiuri Shimbun)

Jack Straus
Jack "Treetop" Straus (June 16, 1930 – August 17, 1988) was an American professional poker player.
He is best known for winning the 1982 World Series of Poker Main Event, where he was able to come back from being down to one chip earlier in the tournament, giving meaning to the poker phrase "a chip and a chair".
 In addition, Straus is known for successfully pulling off one of the best bluffs in the history of poker.


Poker career
Straus began playing in World Series of Poker events in the early 1970s.
 He finished in fourth place in the 1972 Main Event.
 He won his first bracelet in 1973 in the $3,000 Deuce to Seven Draw event for $16,500.
Straus finished in third place in the Main Event that year.
He won the 1982 World Series of Poker Main Event, earning $520,000 and a second WSOP bracelet.
 Straus' appearances at the final table of the Main Event in 1972, 1973, and 1982 put him in an elite group of players to have made the final table three or more times.
Other players to have accomplished this include Main Event champions such as Johnny Moss, Doyle Brunson, Stu Ungar, Johnny Chan and Dan Harrington.


1982 WSOP Main Event, "A Chip and a Chair"
Famously, Straus's 1982 win was a comeback after being down to a single $500 chip, supposedly the origin of the common tournament poker aphorism: "a chip and a chair."  Although accounts vary, the most common story is that he pushed his chips into the pot, was called and lost the hand.
Straus had thought he was eliminated from the tournament, but when he got up, he discovered he had one chip left under a napkin on the table.
Because he did not declare himself all-in, the tournament directors allowed him to continue playing.
 Modern lore says that this feat occurred at the final table, but the 2005 book All In, which documents the history of the WSOP, confirms that it occurred early in the second day, and did leave him with a $500 chip before his comeback.


The bluff
Straus is credited with one of the most celebrated bluffs of all time.
While playing in a high-stakes no limit Texas Hold'em cash game, Straus had won several large pots in a row and so decided that he would raise the next hand pre-flop with any two cards.
When he looked down he found that he had been dealt 7–2 offsuit, the worst starting hand in Texas Hold'em, but, playing a 'rush', he raised anyway.
Straus's raise was called by a single opponent and the flop came 7–3–3.
This was a good flop for a 7–2, so Straus bet out.
 However his tight opponent made a large raise, indicating a likely overpair to the board.
Straus knew he was almost certainly behind, but he decided that he might be able to beat his opponent by representing trip threes, so he called the large raise.
The turn was a 2, for a board of 7–3–3–2, which was no help to Straus with a better pair already on the board, but he made a huge bet anyway.
This set his opponent thinking deeply.
Straus knew that he was desperate to avoid a call, as his chances of drawing out to win on the river were very slim.
After a few minutes, Straus offered his opponent a proposition.
He told him that for $25, he could choose either one of Straus's hole cards and Straus would show it to him.
The opponent considered for a while, then tossed Straus $25 and chose a card.
Straus showed him the deuce.
After another long pause, his opponent eventually figured that Straus would only make such an offer if both of his hole-cards were deuces, therefore giving him a full house: deuces over threes.
He reluctantly folded, and Jack Straus entered poker folklore as one of the most creative bluffers of all time.
The bluff was depicted in the Stu Ungar biopic Stuey; however, Straus is not a character in the film and the bluff is credited to another player.


Outside poker
Straus was nicknamed "Treetop" because he was 6'6"; he attended Texas A&M.
While it has been reported that he had played varsity basketball there, his name does not appear on the school's all-time list of basketball letter earners.
Aside from his poker-playing, Straus was well known as a marksman, a big-game hunter, and for his erudite wit.


Death
After his championship win, Straus continued to actively play poker until his death.
He died of an aortic aneurysm on August 17, 1988, at the age of 58 while playing in a high-stakes poker game at the Bicycle Casino in Los Angeles.
He was posthumously inducted into the Poker Hall of Fame later that year.
Straus's live poker tournament winnings exceeded $750,000.


World Series of Poker bracelets


References


External links
Card Player profile
Hendon Mob profile
WSOP profile

Saint Ulrich
Saint Ulrich (German: Sankt Ulrich, Sankt-Ulrich) or Saint Ulric may refer to four saints:

Ulrich of Augsburg (890–973), Bishop of Augsburg and a leader of the German church, saint
Ulrich of Zell (c.
1029–1093), Cluniac reformer of Germany, abbot, founder and saint
Wulfric of Holme, also known as Ulric of Holme, 10th-century saint from England
Wulfric of Haselbury (c.
1080–1154), also known as Ulric of Haselbury, saint from England


Churches named after St.
Ulrich
St.
Ulrich's and St.
Afra's Abbey (Augsburg)
Basilica of SS.
Ulrich and Afra, Augsburg
St.
Ulrich's Priory in the Black Forest
St.
Ulrich, Vienna


Places named after St.
Ulrich
Sankt Ulrich in Gröden, the German name for Urtijëi in South Tyrol, Italy
Sankt Ulrich im Mühlkreis, a municipality in Upper Austria, Austria
Sankt Ulrich am Pillersee, a municipality in Tyrol, Austria
Sankt Ulrich bei Steyr, a municipality in Upper Austria, Austria
Sankt Ulrich am Waasen, a municipality in Styria, Austria

The Last Embrace
The Last Embrace is the final album released by American band Spirit Caravan.
It was released on 2×CD and 2×LP in 2003 by Meteor City Records.
It contains 19 songs from their two albums, Jug Fulla Sun and Elusive Truth, the three songs that appeared on their debut 7-inch (under the name "Shine"), the two songs from their final 7-inch, Spirit Caravan, the song from their split 7-inch with Sixty Watt Shaman, and their song from the Rise 13 compilation on Rise Above Records.
It also features the last three songs Spirit Caravan recorded, "The Last Embrace", "Brainwashed" and "Dove-Tongued Aggressor".


Track listing


Disc 1
"The Last Embrace" – 4:18 (previously unreleased)
"Brainwashed" – 4:43 (previously unreleased)
"Healing Tongue" – 2:28
"Cosmic Artifact" – 5:51
"Fear's Machine" – 3:27
"Dead Love/Jug Fulla Sun" – 8:00
"Fang" – 4:57
"Chaw" – 2:13
"Melancholy Grey" – 5:19
"Sea Legs" – 4:22
"Kill Ugly Naked" – 2:18
"No Hope Goat Farm" – 3:46
"Courage" – 3:56 (Shine 7-inch version)
"Powertime" – 2:48 (Shine 7-inch version)
"Lost Sun Dance" – 4:19 (Shine 7-inch version)


Disc 2
"Dove-Tongued Aggressor" – 4:25 (previously unreleased)
"So Mortal Be" – 3:37 (from Spirit Caravan 7-inch)
"Undone Mind" – 4:14 (from Spirit Caravan 7-inch)
"Spirit Caravan" – 3:06
"Black Flower" – 5:28
"Retroman" – 5:33
"Find It" – 3:52
"Futility's Reasons" – 5:12
"Cloudy Mirror" – 3:26
"Elusive Truth" – 4:29
"Lifer City" – 2:21
"Outlaw Wizard" – 1:31
"Darkness and Longing" – 4:02 (7-inch split with Sixty Watt Shaman version)
"The Departure" – 5:40 (Rise 13 version)

Tanana River Bridge
Tanana River Bridge is a bridge over the Tanana River in Alaska, United States.
It is 3,300 feet (1,000 m) long, making it the longest bridge in Alaska, and it was completed in August 2014.
It is planned as a combined road and railroad bridge, but the first years it will be a road bridge only.
The extension of Alaska Railroad to Delta Junction is planned to use the bridge.
More than half of the funding came from the Department of Defense, since it connects to military facilities on the west side of the river.


See also
The Mears Memorial Bridge for the Alaska Railroad over the Tanana river at Nenana is sometimes called the Tanana River Bridge
The 1,290 feet (390 m) bridge of the George Parks Highway next to the Mears Memorial Bridge, is also sometimes called the Tanana River Bridge


References

Eichler–Shimura isomorphism
In mathematics, Eichler cohomology (also called parabolic cohomology or cuspidal cohomology) is a cohomology theory for Fuchsian groups, introduced by Eichler (1957), that is a variation of group cohomology analogous to the image of the cohomology with compact support in the ordinary cohomology group.
The Eichler–Shimura isomorphism, introduced by Eichler for complex cohomology and by Shimura (1959) for real cohomology, is an isomorphism between an Eichler cohomology group and a space of cusp forms.
There are several variations of the Eichler–Shimura isomorphism, because one can use either real or complex coefficients, and can also use either Eichler cohomology or ordinary group cohomology as in (Gunning 1961).
There is also a variation of the Eichler–Shimura isomorphisms using l-adic cohomology instead of real cohomology, which relates the coefficients of cusp forms to eigenvalues of Frobenius acting on these groups.
 Deligne (1971) used this to reduce the Ramanujan conjecture to the Weil conjectures that he later proved.


Eichler cohomology
If G is a Fuchsian group and M is a representation of it then the Eichler cohomology group H1P(G,M) is defined to be the kernel of the map from H1(G,M) to 
Πc H1(Gc,M), where the product is over the cusps c of a fundamental domain of G, and Gc is the subgroup fixing the cusp c.
The Eichler–Shimura isomorphism is an isomorphism between the space of cusp forms on G of weight n + 2  and the first Eichler cohomology of the group G with the coefficients in the G-module 
  
    
      
        
          X
          
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle X_{n}}
  
, where the rank of 
  
    
      
        
          X
          
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle X_{n}}
  
 depends on n.


References

Deligne, Pierre (1971), "Formes modulaires et représentations l-adiques", Séminaire Bourbaki vol.
1968/69 Exposés 347-363, Lecture Notes in Mathematics, vol.
179, Berlin, New York: Springer-Verlag, doi:10.1007/BFb0058801, ISBN 978-3-540-05356-9
Eichler, Martin (1957), "Eine Verallgemeinerung der Abelschen Integrale", Mathematische Zeitschrift, 67: 267–298, doi:10.1007/BF01258863, ISSN 0025-5874, MR 0089928
Gunning, Robert C.
(1961), "The Eichler cohomology groups and automorphic forms", Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, 100: 44–62, doi:10.2307/1993353, ISSN 0002-9947, JSTOR 1993353, MR 0140126
Knopp, M.
I.
(2001) [1994], "Eichler cohomology", Encyclopedia of Mathematics, EMS Press
Shimura, Goro (1959), "Sur les intégrales attachées aux formes automorphes", Journal of the Mathematical Society of Japan, 11: 291–311, doi:10.2969/jmsj/01140291, ISSN 0025-5645, MR 0120372

Anthony Head (disambiguation)
Anthony Head (born 1954) is an English actor.
Anthony or Tony Head may also refer to:

Antony Head, 1st Viscount Head (1906–1983), British soldier, Conservative politician and diplomat
Tony Head (athlete), Australian Paralympic athlete
Tony Head (motorcyclist), competitor in the 1983 Grand Prix motorcycle racing season


See also
Anthony Heald

Bécs (album)
Bécs is the sixth studio album by Austrian electronic music producer and guitarist Fennesz, released 28 April 2014 by Editions Mego.
The album has been described as a conceptual and sonic successor to Fennesz's well-received 2001 album Endless Summer and is his first solo release since 2008's Black Sea.


Background
Bécs is described as a departure from the drone music influences of Black Sea, instead featuring contemporary pop music structures.
Pitchfork noted the album's "twinkly and bright" melodies, with the album's use of distortion "(walking) a tightrope between oceanic envelopment and repellant destruction."
The track "Paroles" is notable for a stripped-down sound that does not feature as many audio effects as most of Fennesz's work.


Critical reception

Bécs was well-received by critics upon release; it currently holds a score of 86 from Metacritic, indicating "universal acclaim".
London-based music magazine Uncut praised the album, calling it "an entirely ravishing aesthetic experience." Exclaim!
published a similarly adulatory review, writing that, "With Bécs, Fennesz achieves the near-impossible, crafting a musical sequel that retains the energy, vision, and flow of its predecessor."
Pitchfork gave Bécs a generally positive review, remarking that it was "often gorgeous" but arguing that its sonic similarity to Endless Summer "makes you wonder about motivation."


Accolades


Track listing


Personnel
Credits adapted from liner notes.

Werner Dafeldecker – bass guitar (1)
Martin Brandlmayr – drums (1)
Tony Buck – drums (3)
Martin Siewert – drums recording (3)
Cédric Stevens – modular synthesizer (6)
Rashad Becker – mastering
Tina Frank – cover design


References


External links
Bécs at Discogs (list of releases)

Minghua (ship)
Minghua (simplified Chinese: 明华; traditional Chinese: 明華; pinyin: Mínghuá; Jyutping: ming4 waa4), formerly MV Ancerville, is a 1962 French liner later converted to a cruise ship.
Now landlocked, she is the centerpiece of the Sea World development in Shekou, Shenzhen, China.


Design and construction
She was designed as a liner for the Compagnie de Navigation Paquet (CNP) to serve their Marseille to Dakar, Senegal route and built by Chantiers de l'Atlantique, Saint-Nazaire.
She had a yacht like streamed profile and a unique accommodation arrangement.
Her cabins were mostly located forward and the public rooms aft.
As built, she had three classes of accommodation, 171 first class, 342 second and 243 third class passengers.
First and Second in cabins, Third class in 4 to 10 berth dormitories.
All the Cabins and Dormitories were facing outside so all had portholes or windows.
There were open and enclosed promenades, bars, restaurants, a smoking room, library, children's playroom, photo lab, laundry and theatre.
There were also two swimming pools aft and a small one forward, although the latter was short-lived.
She was fitted with anti rolling stabilizers and air conditioned throughout.
Her main engines were two Burmeister & Wain 12-cylinder two-stroke diesel engines with a 620mm bore and 900mm stroke fitted with Brown-Boveri turbochargers.
Each engine rated at 12,000 bhp at 200 rpm driving two propellers.
During sea trials she reached 25 Knots, her service speed was 22.5 Knots.
She was launched on 5 April 1962 by the French President, Charles de Gaulle and entered service 5 September 1962, with a cruise to the Canary Islands.
Her original name comes from the town of Ancerville, Meuse in North-East France, the birthplace of Nicolas Paquet, the founder of CNP.


French Liner "Ancerville" 1962–1973
Her usual route was from Marseille to Dakar lasting 6 days in each direction, calling at Casablanca and Tenerife on the outward voyage and Las Palmas and Casablanca again on the return, with sailings twice a month.
She would occasionally make other stopovers en route at Alicante, Madeira or Tangiers.
She also operated as a cruise ship during part of each year, increasingly so after 1970.
 When cruising, she was configured as a one class ship with passenger numbers limited to 500, the 3rd class dormitories were not used.
Cruises were usually around the Mediterranean, West Africa and later South America.
In 1970 her ownership was transferred from Compagnie de Navigation Paquet to a sister company, Nouvelle Compagnie de Paquebots (NCP), but continued on her usual routes.
 In July 1970, Ancerville rescued all passengers and crew of the burning and sinking liner Fulvia near the Canary Islands.
The MV Ancerville appears in two Senegalese films: Black Girl (1966) and Touki Bouki (1973).
In early 1973, due to competition from airlines, the ship was sold to the China Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO) owned by the People's Republic of China (PRC) and renamed Minghua, meaning "Spirit of China".
As COSCO needed the ship as soon as possible, her final cruise returning from the carnival in Rio de Janeiro was terminated abruptly in Tenerife instead of Marseille and the passengers flown home.
She sailed to Malta for a dry dock inspection and ownership passed to COSCO in April 1973.


TANZARA Railway Project 1973–1978
The Minghua operated from China to Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania under the management of COSCO to service the construction of the TAZARA Railway, the largest single foreign-aid project undertaken by China at the time.
For five years she ferried Chinese workers to Tanzania to work on the railway being built from Tanzania to Zambia.
At times she also acted as an accommodation ship in Dar Es Salaam.


Refugee ship – June 1978
In 1978 rising racial tensions in Vietnam between the Vietnamese and the ethnic Chinese who had settled there during colonial times caused a refugee crisis.
Large numbers of  the Chinese population attempted to flee to China.
In June, the Chinese government dispatched the Minghua and one other ship from Canton (now Guangzhou), to help evacuate refugees.
The ships departed with great ceremony to Vietnam.
However, on arrival they remained offshore, whilst negotiations continued on when and where the ships could dock.
After several weeks with no agreement reached, the mission was aborted.


China-Japan Friendship Boat Mission – May 1979
In May 1979 the Minghua took a Chinese Government goodwill delegation of 600 people led by General Liao Chengzhi, the President of the China-Japan Friendship Association to Japan to help improve relations between the two countries.
The Minghua spent a month cruising around Japan, arriving first at the western port of Shimonoseki and continuing on to Kyoto, Nagoya, Toyama, Tokyo and Nagasaki before returning to China.
Members of the delegation met with senior Japanese politicians, including Prime Minister Ohira Masayoshi, two former Prime Ministers, Tanaka Kakuei and Takeo Fukuda and the Japanese Foreign Minister Sonoda Sunao, also many influential business leaders.
There was a notable meeting between General Su Yu and Yamashita Ganri, then the Director-General of the Defense Agency, the first meeting between a high official of the Chinese People's Liberation Army and a Japanese defense chief.


Cruise Ship based in Australia 1979–1983
In 1979 a new company, 'Asian Pacific Cruises' was formed in Sydney, Australia.
They arranged to charter the Minghua to operate cruises from Australia to the South Pacific, Hong Kong, SE Asia, Japan and China.
She was given an extensive refit in Hong Kong, and upon completion was able to accommodate 580 passengers.
Her first voyage as a rebuilt cruise ship, departed Shanghai on 15 December to Sydney arriving on New Year's Eve.
Her next cruise was from Sydney to Auckland and the South Pacific.
However mid cruise a dispute arose between Asian Pacific Cruises and COSCO resulting in the charter being cancelled.
COSCO invited an established shipping line, Burns, Philp & Co.
in Sydney to continue as a joint venture partner.
The resulting Five Star Shipping & Agency Co.
Pty.
Ltd.
was the first Sino-Australian Joint Venture company established in Australia.
Burns Philp successfully organized cruises for the next 3+1⁄2 years under the banner "Minghua Friendship Cruises", whilst COSCO operated the ship.
Most were out of Sydney and varied from short "Cruises to Nowhere" to two or three week cruises to New Zealand, the South Pacific and SE Asia and up to six week cruises to Asia, China, Japan and Hawaii.
In Australia, Cairns was a frequent port of call and there were occasional visits to Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane, Hobart, Fremantle and Darwin, usually on the way to Asian destinations.
In July 1980 the ship sailed to Hong Kong for a major refit, the interiors refurbished and the light green hull painted white, returning to Sydney a much improved ship.
Between May and July 1981 there were a series of cruises out of Darwin to Bali, Singapore, Thailand and Hong Kong.
In August 1981, she received yet another refit in Hong Kong and her capacity reduced to 450 passengers.
By now she had become known by many as the "Friendship", well liked by its mostly Australian passengers for its informality.
On February 2, 1983, after a disagreement over money the joint venture partners announced the ship would be withdrawn with the final cruise commencing May 20 to Hong Kong arriving on June 9.
The announcement was unexpected and cruises already scheduled for later in the year to Hawaii and China were cancelled.
During her time sailing from Australia she had completed around 70 cruises, with 17,000 passengers over the 3+1⁄2 years.
Whilst in Hong Kong, she operated two further cruises to Japan.
These were exclusively for the Japanese market.
After these were completed she was sold to become a hotel and entertainment complex in the Shekou Industrial Zone located in China on the Pearl River delta across from Hong Kong near Shenzhen, then being developed by the China Merchants Group.


Hotel and entertainment complex 1983–present
On August 17, 1983, the ship arrived in Shekou, to be refitted as a tourist attraction and part of an entertainment complex that in 1984 was named Sea World (海上世界) by Deng Xiaoping, the PRC's paramount leader, during a stay on board the Minghua.
Her new features included 253 hotel rooms, Chinese and Western restaurants, an English Bar, Bamboo Grove Bar, Music Dance Hall, swimming pool, health center, children's recreation center and the China Folk Customs Exhibition Center.
Even though the ship was considered a building after  becoming part of Sea World, she was not removed from the Lloyd's Register until 1991.
When the ship arrived in Shekou, she was moored alongside a quay adjacent to what was to become the rest of the Sea World Complex; however, during the 1990s the area around her berth was reclaimed from the sea for a golf course and she became landlocked.
The ship closed in 1998 due to management problems after a fire.
Throughout the time she was closed her exterior was kept well maintained, but her interiors were badly neglected.
In December 2001 a major RMB 70M (US$8.45M) refurbishment of the ship began, completed in 2005.
The complex surrounding and including the ship, now called Sea World Plaza.
During the refurbishment larger windows were installed on the upper decks.
The ship hosted a four-star hotel, Brazilian barbecue restaurant, numerous Western restaurants, a wine bar and cigar house, a coffee shop, boutique and movie theater.
The area around the ship was heavily damaged by floods in June 2007 which briefly surrounded the ship with water once again.
In 2010 China Merchants embarked on a complete revamp of the Minghua and its surrounds.
The lifeboats were removed and an ornamental lake built around the starboard side of the ship.
Completed in December 2013 the ship now has a 110-room hotel, a Löwenburg Brauerei and Restaurant and a variety of other bars and restaurants, Western and Chinese.
The interior of the ship and its décor is completely modern and no longer represents the interior as it was during her days afloat.


References

The Problem with Jon Stewart
The Problem with Jon Stewart is an American current affairs television series hosted by Jon Stewart on Apple TV+.
Each episode focuses on a single issue.
The series premiered on September 30, 2021.
The second season premiered on October 7, 2022.
The series was canceled in October 2023 after two seasons.


Production
In October 2020, as part of a multi-year production deal with Apple, it was announced that Jon Stewart was creating a new current affairs series for Apple TV+, marking his return to the format since leaving The Daily Show in 2015.
Throughout early 2021, the show was building out its production team, hiring Brinda Adhikari to serve as showrunner and executive producer, Chelsea Devantez as head writer, and Lorrie Baranek as Stewart's executive in production in February 2021.
Adhikari was a longtime network news veteran before coming on to the show.
Around the same time, Busboy Productions posted job listings seeking to fill positions for all aspects of the production.
On April 7, 2021, the title of The Problem with Jon Stewart and a late 2021 premiere date for the series were announced.
Each episode lasted one hour and focused on a single issue that was "currently part of the national conversation and [Stewart's] advocacy work".
Apple had said that the show would run for multiple seasons, and that each season would be accompanied by a companion podcast, co-hosted by Stewart and his writing and production staff and following up on each episode.
The series began filming in front of a live studio audience in New York City on July 14, 2021.


Cancellation
On October 19, 2023, it was announced that the show was cancelled due to creative differences between Stewart and Apple, which reportedly involved the show's coverage of artificial intelligence, Israel, and China.
On The Daily Show on April 8, 2024, in an interview with FTC Chair Lina Khan, Stewart discussed some of his problems with Apple, and said that when he wanted to have Khan on the show, "Apple asked us not do it ...
They literally said 'please don’t talk to her'." Stewart also said that Apple wouldn't let him talk about AI on the same episode .
CNN reported that Stewart had talked about concerns expressed by Apple over his show covering subjects of AI, China, and Israel.


Episodes


Series overview


Season 1 (2021–22)


Season 2 (2022–23)


Release
The Problem with Jon Stewart premiered its first episode on September 30, 2021, on Apple TV+, with one new episode initially scheduled to premiere every other Thursday.
The series is accompanied by a weekly podcast that premiered on September 30, 2021.


See also
The Daily Show


References


External links
Official website 
The Problem with Jon Stewart at IMDb
Official YouTube Channel

Rafa Martins
Rafaella Carmo Martins (born 17 July 1999), known as Rafa Martins, is a Brazilian footballer who plays as either a centre-back or a left-back for Santos FC.


Career
Born in Santa Luzia, Minas Gerais, Rafa Martins began her career with São José.
On 31 January 2020, she joined América Mineiro.
In January 2023, after featuring rarely for América, Rafa Martins was announced at Minas Brasília.
In August, however, she moved abroad and joined Macedonian side ŽFK Ljuboten.
On 31 July 2024, Rafa Martins returned to her home country and signed for Santos until the end of the year.
On 30 November, she agreed to a new two-year deal.


Honours
Ljuboten

Macedonian Women's Football Championship: 2023–24
Santos

Copa Paulista de Futebol Feminino: 2024


References

2009–10 ISU Speed Skating World Cup – World Cup 6
The sixth competition weekend of the 2009–10 ISU Speed Skating World Cup was held in the Gunda Niemann-Stirnemann-Halle, Erfurt, Germany, from Saturday, 6 March, until Sunday, 7 March 2010.


Schedule of events
The schedule of the event is below.


Medal summary


Men's events


Women's events


References

Results

WTTI
WTTI (1530 AM) and 93.3 FM is a radio station broadcasting a Contemporary Christian music format.
WTTI operates with a power of 10,000 watts, and uses a two-tower directional antenna system.
 Licensed to Dalton, Georgia, United States, the station is currently owned by Deborah and James Boyd, through licensee Hope Broadcasting, Inc.


History
The station went on the air as WTTI on June 17, 1965, and broadcast a country music format.
At that time the station was owned by WTTI broadcasters, and was located in the First National Bank building in Dalton.
The station had its first ownership change in September 1971.
 In 1972, WTTI was broadcasting a contemporary music format.
In 1985, the station's format was again Country music.
WTTI had its second ownership change in September 1986, and was then airing an adult contemporary music format.
The station was sold for a third time in 1987.
The new owner was Pye Wilson Broadcasting, who switched WTTI to a Christian music format.
 The station was sold to Troy Hall who continued the Christian format through Troy Hall Broadcasting.
 In 2009, Deborah and Jim Boyd (Hope Broadcasting, Inc.) took over ownership with a Praise and Worship (Christian music) format.
 In July 2016, an FM translator was added to WTTI at 93.3 FM.
 WTTI Radio currently airs on 1530 AM, 93.3 FM, and wttiradio.com.
The station signal covers Northwest Georgia, including Dalton, Chatsworth, Ringgold, LaFayette, and Calhoun.
The AM station signs off at sunset, to protect WCKY from Cincinnati, Ohio.
 The FM station is 24 hours.
 WTTI Radio streams live at wttiradio.com and on smart phone apps, both IOS and android formats.


References


External links
Official website
Dalton, Georgia radio stations- Georgia Radio Hall of Fame
WTTI Radio Audio Archive (Steve Hill)
Facility details for Facility ID 53957 (WTTI)   in the FCC Licensing and Management System
WTTI in Nielsen Audio's AM station database

Cthulhu (disambiguation)
Cthulhu is a fictional cosmic entity created by horror author H.
P.
Lovecraft.
Cthulhu may also refer to:


Arts and entertainment
H.
P.
Lovecraft's Cthulhu: The Whisperer in Darkness, a 1991-92 comics mini-series
"Cthulhu", a song by Therion of the 1992 album Beyond Sanctorum
Cthulhu (2000 film), an Australian horror film by Damian Heffernan
Cthulhu (2007 film), an American horror film
"Cthulhu", a song by The Acacia Strain from the 2008 album Continent


Other uses
Belton Regio (formerly Cthulhu Regio), the largest dark region on Pluto
Cthulhu (genus), a symbiotic microorganism that lives in the guts of termites
C'thulhu (assassination), an assassination dark web site
"Cuttlefish of Cthulhu", the codpiece worn by Dave Brockie, lead vocalist for the heavy metal band GWAR
Cthulhu (developer)


See also
Call of Cthulhu (disambiguation)
Cthulhu Live, a live-action roleplaying game
Cthulhu 500, a card game designed by Jeff Tidball
Cthulhu Rise, musical band from Kyiv, Ukraine
All pages with titles containing Cthulhu

Nikolai Ekk
Nikolai Vladimirovich Ekk (Russian: Николай Владимирович Экк; 14 June 1902 – 14 July 1976) was a Soviet and Russian film director and screenwriter.
"Ekk" was in fact a pseudonym; his real surname was Ivakin (Russian: Ивакин).
Born in Riga, he studied acting and directing in the theater of Vsevolod Meyerhold.
He directed six feature films between 1929 and 1967.
Among them was the first Soviet sound film Road to Life and the first Soviet color motion picture film The Nightingale.


Filmography
How Should and How Shouldn't (Как надо и как не надо) (1929)
Road to Life (Путёвка в жизнь) (1931)
The Nightingale (Груня Корнакова) (1936)
The Fair of Sorochyntsi (Сорочинская ярмарка) (1938)
When the Snow Is Falling...
(Когда падает снег...) (1962)
A Man in a Green Glove (1967)
The Nile and The Life (1968)
Those People of the Nile (1972)


Family
Nikolai Ekk was married to Ukrainian film actress Valentina Ivashova.


References


External links

Nikolai Ekk at IMDb

Sanctuary of Arcella, Padua
The Sanctuary of Arcella (Italian: Santuario dell'Arcella), popularly known as Sant'Antonino, is a Roman Catholic church located in the neighborhood of Arcella, in the north of Padua, region of Veneto, Italy.
The sanctuary preserves the room in which St Anthony of Padua died on June 13, 1231.
Today it also serves as a parish church, ministered by monks of the Franciscan order.


History
Although the Gothic Revival church building is relatively new and completed in 1931 using designs by Eugenio Maestri, worship at the site has medieval roots.
Today the Sanctuary is still run by the Friars Minor Conventual, and enjoys the title of parish church.
In the early 13th-century, the site hosted a hospice, staffed by a group of Clarissan nuns, which had been established by St Francis of Assisi himself in 1227.
During this time, the hospice was some distance outside the city walls of medieval Padua.

On June 13, 1231, en route to Padua, Antonio, a follower of St Francis, fell ill and died on this site.
The room in which he died became a site of devotion.
Putatively in the same year, the Poor Clare nun, Elena Enselmini died and her remains have since also been kept in this sanctuary; she was beatified in 1695.
Over the centuries, the structures at the site were enlarged.
In 1506, the Church of the Blessed Elena was built to house the body of Enselmini and attached to a Clarissan monastery.
The new church was also built around St Anthony's cell.

The present Sanctuary was designed under the patronage of Paduan Giovanni Battista Trevisan: his project rebuilt or enlarged the previous construction completed in 1842 in Neoclassical style.
It was characterized by the imposing Corinthian portico raised on a high basement and twin bell towers, which flanked the narrow nave.
The neo-Gothic sanctuary was designed (1890) by Eugenio Maestri as an extension of the previous building.
The interior was completely painted in tempera by Giacomo Manzoni in collaboration with Agis Aschieri.
Construction lasted till 1931 with the aid of Nino Gallimberti and Agostino Zanovello.


References

1972–73 Serie A
The 1972–73 Serie A season was won by Juventus.


Teams
Ternana, Lazio and Palermo had been promoted from Serie B.


Final classification


Results


Top goalscorers


References and sources
Almanacco Illustrato del Calcio - La Storia 1898-2004, Panini Edizioni, Modena, September 2005


External links
[1] - All results on RSSSF Website.

Wheelbuilding
Wheelbuilding is the process of assembling wire wheels (generally a bicycle wheel, but including wheelchairs, and some cars and motorcycles).
The components of a wire wheel are the rim, spokes, nipples, and hub.


Goals
The wheelwright must ensure that the wheel is true in two ways: lateral (sideways wobble) and radial (roundness/hop).
The wheel also needs to be properly dished if applicable (the left and right sides of the rear wheel differ, the drive-side spokes requiring higher tension).
Spokes should have no residual twist (windup) from tightening the nipples.
The spokes may be "stress relieved", i.e.
subjected to a greater tension during building than they are ever likely to encounter in use - usually by squeezing pairs of spokes together very hard.
This 'yields' the spokes (and/or the hub) into a permanent shape, where they bend around the hub flanges and each other.


Spoking
Spoking patterns may be radial or semi-tangential.
For a normal wheel size and spoke count, only the latter is suitable for a wheel that has to transmit torque from the hub to the rim, as with rear wheels or hub brakes.
This rule is occasionally broken where a very large number of spokes is used, or the wheel is unusually small in diameter, either of which reduces the amount of increased tensile stress on each radial spoke to an acceptable degree; some BMX bicycles and low-riders use radial spoking for both wheels.
Rear wheels may also incorporate radial spoking on the non-drive side and semi-tangential spoking on the drive side.
At least one example, the Mavic Ksyrium, has radial spoking on the drive side of the rear wheel.
The most common spoking pattern is "three-cross" where each spoke crosses three others on the same flange of the hub before meeting the rim.
The last cross is normally "interlaced" by wrapping the spoke around the one from the other side of the flange.
Radial-spoked wheels, where the spokes do not cross each other, saves roughly the weight of two spokes (because the spokes are shorter) compared to a three-cross wheel but run an increased risk of cracking at the hub flange, unless the hub is specifically designed for this pattern.
Two-cross is sometimes used for hubs with large-diameter flanges (such as generator/dynamo hubs or large flange hubs), as it gives a more perpendicular spoke/rim angle, and four-cross is standard for spoke counts of 40 and above.


Bicycle wheels

Most conventional bicycle wheels now use 32 or 36 spokes front and rear, although the asymmetry of the rear wheel (to allow for the cluster of sprockets), and the additional weight it carries, means it benefits from having more spokes than the front.
Commonly used models vary from 18 spokes for racing bikes to 36 for cross-country touring bikes to 48 spokes on tandems and heavily abused BMX bikes.
The minimum number of spokes allowed for competition is 12.
Some lowrider bicycles use as many as 144 brightly chromed spokes per wheel, although these are not meant for serious riding.

Wheels can be built by machine instead of by hand.
However, machine-built wheels are rarely as satisfactory as handbuilt wheels, partly because it is uneconomical to allow the machine to spend long enough on each wheel for a perfect result but also because most machines leave spokes with some residual twist.
Machine-built wheels can be identified by their lacing pattern (if it is not radial), as the spokes are laced the same on each side, rather than mirrored as on hand-built wheels.
More modern "factory built" wheels such as Mavic's Ksyrium series are of quite different construction from that of a conventional wheel, trading a deeper and stronger rim for fewer spokes.
They are popular, and quite light (in the more expensive models) but not as durable, readily repairable or maintainable as a conventional wheel.
Stainless steel is the most common material for spokes, although most mass-produced budget wheels use galvanized steel spokes.
Other materials such as titanium or aluminum are often used to reduce weight.
Some wheels are designed around carbon fiber spokes, which are often completely integrated with the hub and rim and bladed in shape.
Non-steel spokes are normally reserved for racing bikes and other specialist applications where weight, aerodynamics and performance are valued over durability and cost.
Rims were traditionally made of steel, but currently aluminum is by far the most common and best choice due to its light weight, high durability and stiffness.
Wood is also used.
Composite materials such as carbon fiber are sometimes used, typically for racing competitions such as time trial, triathlon and track cycling, although carbon fiber is becoming more common for recreational uses such as road cycling or mountain biking due to its looks, strength and feel.


Motorcycle wheels

Motorcycle wire wheels typically use 36 or 40 spokes, of much heavier gauge than those on a bicycle.
They are never "interlaced" in the manner described above, nor are "radial" builds recommended (only wheels without brakes).
Motorcycle rims are dimpled toward the hub at each spoke location, and the holes for the spokes are drilled into the dimples at an angle.
This angle is a function of the cross-pattern used to lace the wheel, the diameter of the hub flanges, and the width of the hub at the flanges.
Conical-hub wheels have a different angle drilled into one side of the rim when compared with the other side.
Adequate spoke tension is very important with motorcycle wheels, because of the greater torque applied to the wheel by an engine or disc brake.
Loose spokes on a wheel fatigue rapidly and break, usually at the bend where they attach to the hub.
When this happens, the wheel must be rebuilt using all new spokes, because even unbroken spokes in such a wheel are fatigued, and will usually break when tightened during the truing operation.


Spoke length
The correct length of spokes required can be calculated using rim diameter, hub flange diameter, hub width, lacing pattern, and number of spokes.
See and.
These calculations can be done either by hand (the old-fashioned way - with a pen, paper and calculator) or by using a computer.
There are many programs available and they range in complexity from simple Excel spreadsheets to stand alone desktop applications and web based calculators.
An alternative method is to refer to a table which has the spoke lengths for a number of common hub and rim combinations.


Other conventions
A good wheelbuilder will ensure that the valve hole lies between two nearly parallel spokes to ease attachment of a pump head.
 This does not affect the structural integrity of the wheel, and this rule is usually observed.
 
If the hub has a maker's label on its barrel, it is convention for the label to face (and be readable through) the valve hole.
The rim labels should be readable from the right-hand side (drive side) of the bicycle.
The hub labels should face in the same direction front and rear (generally so they are readable from the seat), this means that even an undished, symmetrical front wheel has to be laced to the rim the "proper" way round, if perfection is the aim.


See also


References

LNG (disambiguation)
LNG may refer to:

Liquefied natural gas, form of natural gas for easier storage and transport
Levonorgestrel, a hormonal medication used for birth control
lng, the ISO 639-3 code for Lombardic language
Longcross railway station, the station code LNG
Lateral nuclear group, a collection of nuclei on the lateral side of the thalamus

Bharjari Bachelors
Bharjari Bachelors  is a reality show that focuses on addressing the challenges faced by adolescent boys who are at the age of marriage in society.
The program is aired on Zee Kannada.
The primary objective of "Bharjari Bachelors" is to provide a platform for young men to showcase their personalities, talents, and readiness for marriage.
Throughout the show, the bachelors participate in various tasks, activities, and challenges that are designed to test their skills, emotional intelligence, and compatibility with potential life partners.


Overview
The show aims to bring together selected bachelors from Karnataka and help them navigate the transition from bachelorhood to a stage where they become eligible for marriage.
The program likely features a mix of entertaining and engaging elements, including personal interview, group activities, and interactions with experts in relationship counseling and marriage.
The contestants are expected to confront and overcome obstacles that are commonly faced by individuals entering the marriage phase of their lives.


Judges
Ravichandran is described as the "crazy star".
He is popular and well-known actor in the region.
Known for his romantic roles and ability to connect with the audience, Ravichandran has gained a reputation for teaching love lessons and creating a world of love for teenagers.
In the show, he takes on the role of a love guru, offering guidance and teasing the boys as they navigate their journey towards marriage.
Rachitha Ram is referred to as the "Dimple Queen", suggesting that she is an actress known for her charm and 
captivating presence.
She is described as the dream girl of the bachelors.
indicating that she is admired and adored by the participants on the show.


Contestants


References

Boris Policeband
Boris Policeband (also known as Policeband or Boris Pearlman) was a no wave performer who used an electrified viola and police walkie-talkies to make music.
Boris Pearlman was a classically trained violist from New York City.


Career
Boris Pearlman joined early no wave band Jack Ruby in 1973 playing viola "electrified...by running it through an FM transmitter and a bunch police walkie-talkies that he strapped around his waist." Randy Cohen was also in the group as well as George Scott III who later played with Lydia Lunch, James Chance and John Cale (among others).
Jack Ruby broke up in 1977 with no studio releases.
He became known as Boris Policeband after a live performance in 1976 during which he monitored, on headphones, police communications from a scanner and recited their chatter while he accompanied himself on electric violin.
Boris was fascinated by cop culture and the often prosaic and sometimes poetic reality of law enforcement chatter.

In 1979 Boris Policeband released a 7" recording called: Policeband: Stereo / Mono that was produced by artist Dike Blair.
He also appears with two tracks on the no wave recording New York Noise Vol.
3 that was released in 2006.
Boris, a self-proclaimed materialistic-socialist who practiced antidisestablishmentarianism, was a downtown post-punk club fixture.
His days were spent combing through SoHo art galleries, as he was fascinated with conceptual art, and Lower East Side pawnshops for material to add to his collection of used books, sunglasses (which he was never seen without), and wristwatches.
Every night he was in no wave clubs, like CBGBs, Tier 3 and the Mudd Club, where he leaned against a wall while listening to classical music with an ear plug on his transistor radio while engaging in snappy repartee and/or swapping insults with other club goers.


Discography


EP
Stereo / Mono (1979, Vacuum)


Legacy
He appears in the film that Coleen Fitzgibbon and Alan W.
Moore created in 1978 (finished in 2009) of a no wave concert to benefit Colab called X Magazine Benefit that documents a performance of Boris Policeband, along with those of DNA and James Chance and the Contortions.
Shot in black and white super-8 the film captures the gritty look and sound of the music scene during that era.
In 2013 it was exhibited at Salon 94, an art gallery in New York City.
In 1978 Sylvère Lotringer conducted a one-page interview with Policeband (with a one-page photo) in Columbia University's philosophy department publication of Semiotext(e) called Schizo-Culture: The Event, The Book.
Perelman ended the Policeband project in the mid-80s to pursue classical viola.


References


Footnotes
Carlo McCormick, The Downtown Book: The New York Art Scene, 1974–1984, Princeton University Press, 2006
Masters, Marc.
No Wave, London: Black Dog Publishing, 2007
Sylvère Lotringer & David Morris (Eds), Schizo-Culture: The Event, The Book, Semiotext(e), 1978, re-published in 2013, pp.
64–64


External links
"X-Magazine Benefit." A film by Coleen Fitzgibbon and Alan W.
Moore 1978/2009, video, 11 minutes."Colab's X Magazine Benefit" documents the punk rock performances ofDNA, James Chance and the Contortions, and Boris Policeband


See also
Mudd Club
Tier 3
Just Another Asshole
Jack Ruby
No wave

Zeynep Bastık
Zeynep Bastık (born 8 July 1993) is a Turkish singer, songwriter, dancer, and actress.


Life
Her family members are also musicians.
Her mother was a folk dance teacher.
At the age of fifteen she joined the Fire of Anatolia as a dancer and remained part of the group for eight years.
She later became interested in Latin dance and pole dance.
She also worked as actress in musical theatres.
In 2010, she started professional music with the band "Jackpot" in İzmir, performing mainly cover songs.
Until 2012, she performed with this group on stage in different cities, including İzmir, Eskişehir and Bursa.
Her backing vocals were featured in Murat Dalkılıç's song "Lüzumsuz Savaş" and Anıl Piyancı's song "Delili Yok".
She worked as Dalkılıç's backing vocalist for three years.
With Dalkılıç's help, she released her first single "Fırça" in 2014 and second single "Şahaneyim" in 2017.
She performed the duet "Ben Kalp Sen", which was composed by Dalkılıç for the series Aşk Yeniden.
She also had minor roles in various TV series such as Adı Mutluluk, Yasak Elma, Sil Baştan, Umuda Kelepçe Vurulmaz and Yuvamdaki Düşman.
On the EP Akustikler, she collaborated with composers Emir Can İğrek, Sezen Aksu and Oğuzhan Koç.
She wrote the lyrics for her song "Çukur" and composed it together with Çağrı Telkıvıran.
All songs of Akustikler are acoustic versions.
Together with Serhat Şensesli, she wrote and composed the song "Kendi Yolumuzda" as a collaboration with Elidor to mark the International Women's Day.
She co-wrote and co-composed some of the songs in her album Zeynodisco.
Bastık became an advertising face for Adidas in 2019, Elidor and Penti in 2020, Getir in 2021, and Vodafone in 2022.


Music style
Bastık mainly performed rock and later acoustic and electronic music.
She started her solo music career shortly afterwards.
She became famous after releasing a cover version of Ezhel's song "Felaket".
Additionally, she covered a number of other songs, notably by Fikri Karayel, Harun Kolçak and Ümit Sayın, which she shared on her YouTube channel.
These covers helped with increasing her fame.
According to Tolga Akyıldız, performing the songs of artists such as Aylin Aslım, İzel, Ferda Anıl Yarkın, Kenan Doğulu, Levent Yüksel, Jabbar, Tarkan, Mustafa Sandal, Şebnem Ferah, Harun Kolçak, Ajda Pekkan, Nilüfer, Kerim Tekin, Şahsenem, Pinhani and Sezen Aksu, and her duets with multiple artists have contributed to her popularity in the digital music market.
Bastık was able to come to the fore with these advantages.
It has been suggested that Can Ozan, who made his debut in the same time as Bastık, became more popular and known after his duet with her was released.


Discography


Non-album singles


As featured artist


Filmography


Commercials
Adidas
Elidor
Penti
Getir
Vodafone


References


External links
Official website
Zeynep Bastık discography at Discogs
"Ünlü şarkıcı Zeynep Bastık konser veremeyeceğini açıkladı".
Sosyal Medya içerikleri (in Turkish).
27 December 2022.
Archived from the original on 28 December 2022.
Retrieved 26 May 2024.

Michael Fortunati
Pierre Michel Nigro (born 4 September 1955), better known as Michael Fortunati, is an Italo disco/Eurobeat singer.


Biography
Pierre Nigro was born in the province of Brindisi, Apulia, Italy but grew up in Hem in the north of France, where he formed the group Carré D'As in the 1970s with his brothers.
They released several albums in the 1980s.
Nigro then began a solo career under the pseudonym Michael Fortunati, and met success with his first record "Give Me Up", released in the summer of 1986.
It was a big hit in Belgium, France and Japan.
He is particularly well known in Japan, where the musical style Eurobeat is popular, and has released many albums and compilations in Japan alone.
In 1987, Fortunati performed at the Tokyo Music Festival and won the Grand Prix award in the Disco & Dance Division.
He has also appeared on several Japanese TV shows.
"Give Me Up" has subsequently been covered by numerous Japanese singers such as BaBe, Yōko Nagayama, Beni Arashiro, Mi, Melon Kinenbi and Nami Tamaki.


Discography


Albums
Give Me Up (1987)
Alleluia (1988)
Fire (1989)
Big Bang (1991)
Baby Break It Up!
(1995), Avex Trax
Dreamin' (1997), Avex Trax


Compilation albums
The World Remixes (1990)
Remix It Up!
(1995), Avex Trax
The Greatest Hits (1992)
The Best of Michael Fortunati (Hyper NonStop Mix) (1995), Avex Trax
Best of 2000 (2000), Victor Entertainment
Give Me Up – The Very Best of Michael Fortunati (2002), Toshiba EMI
Give Me Up – The Complete Best of Michael Fortunati (2008)
The Best of Disco Covers (2018)


Singles
"Give Me Up" (1986)
"Alleluia" (1987)
"Gonna Get You" (Remix) (1987)
"Into the Night" (1987)
"Giochi di fortuna" (1987)
"Energyse" / "Mia Liberta" (a.k.a.
"Boku No Yume") (1987)
"Let Me Down" (1988)
"Danse avec moi" (1989)
"ABC (It's Called)" (1989)
"Baby You" (1990)
"I'm Not a Freak" (1991)
"Big Bang" / "Tokyo Girl" (1991)
"Take Me On Up" / "Give Me Up" (Remix) (1992)
"Generate" (1993)
"Techno Cha Cha Cha" (1994)
"Baby Break It Up!" (1995)
"Koo Koo"/"C'est You!
Oh No!"/"Hoochie Coo"/"Crazy Baby"
"Dreamin'" (1997)
"Give Me Up Is Still Alive" (with Laurent C) (2001)
Japan Tour E.P.
01 (2004)


References


External links
Myspace
Michael Fortunati's Facebook
Michael Fortunati on Discogs

Somatic experiencing
Somatic experiencing (SE) is a form of alternative therapy aimed at treating trauma and stress-related disorders, such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
The primary goal of SE is to modify the trauma-related stress response through bottom-up processing.
The client's attention is directed toward internal sensations (interoception, proprioception, and kinaesthesis) rather than cognitive or emotional experiences.
Peter A.
Levine developed the method.
SE sessions are typically in-person and involve clients tracking their physical experiences.
Practitioners are often mental health practitioners such as social workers, psychologists, therapists, psychiatrists, Rolfers, Feldenkrais practitioners, yoga and Daoyin therapists, educators, clergy, occupational therapists, etc.


Theory and methods


Basis
Somatic experiencing, also known as somatic therapy, is heavily predicated on psychoanalyst Wilhelm Reich's theories of blocked emotion and how emotion is held and released from the body.
It differs from traditional talk therapies such as cognitive behavioral therapy, which has a primary focus on the mind and not the body, by prioritizing disturbing thoughts and behavior patterns and seeking to change them.
Instead, somatic therapy treats the body as the starting point for healing.
It is less about desensitizing people to uncomfortable sensations and more about relieving tension in the body.
Many Western somatic psychotherapy approaches are based on either Reich or Elsa Gindler.
Gindler's vision preceded Reich's and greatly influenced him.
Gindler's direct link to the United States was Charlotte Selver.
Selver greatly influenced Peter Levine's work and the development of fine somatic tracking.
Selver taught thousands of Americans her "sensory awareness" method at the Esalen Institute, including Levine.
Somatic experiencing, like many of its sister modalities, is indebted to both Gindler and Reich.
Each method has its twist that differentiates it in style "in a manner alike to the different sects of an overarching religion" and even becoming "cult-like" at one time.


Definitions
Peter Payne and colleagues describe SE as "not a form of exposure therapy" in that it "avoids direct and intense evocation of traumatic memories, instead approaching the charged memories indirectly and very gradually." Leitch and colleagues describe the approach similarly as "working with small gradations of traumatic activation alternated with the use of bodily resources.
Working with small increments of traumatic material is a key component of SE, as is the development of somatic resources".
In SE people "gently and incrementally reimagine and experience" and are "slowly working in graduated 'doses'".
Anderson and colleagues, however, states that SE "includes techniques known from interoceptive exposure for panic attacks, by combining arousal reduction strategies with mild exposure therapy."


Systematic desensitization
One of the first exposure therapies, systematic desensitization, which Joseph Wolpe developed in the 1940s to treat anxiety disorders and phobias, is similarly described.
 Wolpe's systematic desensitization "consists of exposing the patient, while in a state of emotional calmness, to a small 'dose' of something he fears" using imaginal methods that allow the therapist to "control precisely the beginning and ending of each presentation".
This graduated exposure is similar to the SE concept of "titration".
Wolpe also relied on relaxation responses alternating with incremental or graduated exposure to anxiety-provoking stimuli, and this practice was standard within cognitive-behavioral protocols long before somatic experiencing was trademarked in 1989.


Pendulation
One element of somatic experiencing therapy is "pendulation", a supposed natural intrinsic rhythm of the organism between contraction and expansion.
The concept and its comparison to unicellular organisms can be traced to Wilhelm Reich, the father of somatic psychotherapy.
Alexander Lowen and John Pierrakos, both psychiatrists, built upon Reich's foundational theories, developing Bioenergetics, and also compared the rhythm of this life-force-energy to a pendulum.
The SE concept of the "healing vortex" is grounded in Ackert Ahsen's "law of bipolarity" according to Eckberg.
Levine credits his inspiration for the healing vortex to a dream and not Ahsen.
This principle involves the pendulatory tendency to weave back and forth between traumatic material and healing images and parasympathetic responses.
Ahsen's "principle of bipolar configurations" asserts that "every significant eidetic state involves configuration .
.
.
around two opposed nuclei which contend against each other.
Every ISM of the negative type has a counter-ISM of the positive type."


SIBAM (Sensation, Image, Behavior, Affect, and Meaning)
Peter Levine put forth that, during the 1970s, he "developed a model" called "SIBAM", which broke down all experience into five channels of "Sensation, Image, Behavior, Affect and Meaning (or Cognition)." SIBAM is considered both a model of experience and a model of dissociation.
Multimodal therapy, developed by Arnold Lazarus in the 1970s, is similar to the SIBAM model in that it broke down experience into "Behavior, Affect, Sensation, Image, and Cognition (or Meaning)".
Somatic experiencing integrates the tracking of Gendlin's "felt sense" into the model.
Levine has made use of Gendlin's focusing approach in Somatic experiencing.
"Dr.
Levine emphasizes that the felt sense is the medium through which we understand all sensation, and that it reflects our total experience at a given moment."
Lazarus also incorporated Gendlin's "focusing" method into his model to circumvent cognitive blocks.
Incorporation of this "bottom-up", "felt sense" method is shared by both SE and multimodal therapy.
Lazarus, like Levine, was heavily influenced by Akhter Ahsen's "ISM unity" or "eidetic" concept.
In 1968, Ahsen explained the ISM this way:
"It is a tri-dimensional unity.
.
.
.
With this image is attached a characteristic body feeling peculiar to the image, which we call the somatic pattern.
With this somatic pattern is attached a third state composed of a constellation of vague and clear meanings, which we call the meaning." It is important to note that sensation, for Ahsen, included affective and physiological states.
Ahsen went on to apply his ISM concept to traumatic experiences, which is strikingly similar to Peter Levine's later developed model.
In the SIBAM model, like in the ISM model, the separate dimensions of experience in trauma can be "dissociated from one another".


Coupling dynamics
In the Somatic Experiencing method, there is the concept of "coupling dynamics," in which the "under-coupled" state, where the traumatic experience exists, is not as a unity but as dissociated elements of the SIBAM.
In SE, "the arousal in one element can trigger the arousal in other elements (overcoupling) or it can restrict arousal in other elements (undercoupling)." An SE therapist "often has to work to uncouple responses (if responses are overcoupled) or to find ways to couple them (if the responses are undercoupled) in order for therapy to progress and to help the individual to restore balance in his or her emotional life." Ashen's description clearly matches this concept.
Additionally, treatment of "post-traumatic stress through imagery", like SE, "emphasizes exploitation of the somatic aspect over the visual component of Ashen's ISM model because of the strong emotional and physiological components that present themselves frontally in these cases."


Stress
According to SE, post-traumatic stress symptoms originate from an "overreaction of the innate stress system due to the overwhelming character of the traumatic event.
In the traumatic situation, people are unable to complete the initiated psychological and physiological defensive reaction." Standard cognitive behavioral understanding of PTSD and anxiety disorders was grounded in an understanding of fight, flight, or freeze mechanisms in addition to conscious and unconscious, preprogrammed, automatic primal defensive action systems.
SE is theorised to work through the "generation of new corrective interoceptive experiences" or the therapeutic 'renegotiating' of the traumatic response.
Due to this focus, Somatic Experiencing claims it is unique and may be more effective than cognitive-behavioral models.
The coupling dynamics model/SIBAM model in SE, however, is reminiscent of the Pavlovian fear conditioning and extinction models underlying exposure-based extinction paradigms of cognitive behavior therapy.
Additionally, graduated exposure therapy and other fear extinction methods are similarly theorized to work due to the power of corrective experiences enhanced by "active coping" methods.


Discharge
In Somatic Experiencing therapy, "discharge" is facilitated in response to arousal to enable the client's body to return to a controlled condition.
Discharge may be in the form of tears, a warm sensation, unconscious movement, the ability to breathe easily again, or other responses that demonstrate the autonomic nervous system returning to its baseline.
The intention of this process is to reinforce the client's inherent capacity to self-regulate.
The charge/discharge concept in Somatic Experiencing has its origins in Reichian therapy and Bioenergetics.
Levine's predecessors in the somatic psychotherapy field clearly understood the dynamics of shock trauma and the failure of mobilization of fight or flight impulses in creating symptoms of anxiety neuroses and to maintain a chronic "state of emergency".
They also understood that healing involved completing this "charge" associated with the truncated fight-or-flight impulses.


Polyvagal theory
Somatic Experiencing is also predicated on the Polyvagal Theory of human emotion developed by Stephen Porges.
Many of the Polyvagal theory tenets incorporated in the Somatic Experiencing training are controversial and unproven.
The SE therapy concepts, such as "dorsal vagal shutdown" with bradycardia that are used to describe "freeze" and collapse states of trauma patients, are controversial since it appears the ventral vagal branch, not the dorsal vagal branch, mediates this lowered heart rate and blood pressure state.
Neurophysiological studies have shown that the dorsal motor nucleus has little to do with traumatic or psychologically related heart rate responses.


Link to shamanism
Levine's model, influenced by his work with shamans of "several cultures", makes wider connections "to myth and shamanism" and is "connected to these traditions".
Levine "uses a story from shamanistic medicine to describe the work of body-centred trauma counselling.
In shamanism, it is believed that when a person is overwhelmed by tragedy, his soul will leave his body, a belief which is concordant with our present understanding of dissociation." Levine even notes that while developing his "theoretical biophysics doctoral dissertation on accumulated stress, as well as on my body-mind approach to resolving stress and healing trauma" he had a mystical experience where he engaged in a year-long socratic dialogue with an apparition of Albert Einstein.
After reportedly having a "profound" dream Peter Levine believed he had been "assigned" the task "to protect this ancient knowledge from the Celtic Stone Age temples, and the Tibetan tradition, and to bring it to the scientific Western way of looking at things..."


Evidence
A 2019 systemic literature review noted that a stronger investment in clinical trials was needed to determine the efficacy of Somatic Experiencing.
A 2021 literature review stated: "Findings provide preliminary evidence for positive effects of SE on PTSD-related symptoms.
Moreover, initial evidence suggests that SE has a positive impact on affective and somatic symptoms and measures of well-being in both traumatized and non-traumatized samples.
Practitioners and clients identified resource-orientation and use of touch as method-specific key factors of SE.
Yet, an overall studies quality assessment as well as a Cochrane analysis of risk of bias indicate that the overall study quality is mixed."
It concluded: "The results concerning effectiveness and method-specific key factors of SE are promising; yet, require more support from unbiased RCT-research.
Future research should focus on filling this gap".
It also noted that "SE attracts growing interest in clinical application despite the lack of empirical research.
Yet, the current evidence base is weak and does not (yet) fully accomplish the high standards for clinical effectiveness research."


Regulation
Unlike some of its sister somatic modalities (biodynamic craniosacral therapy, polarity therapy, etc.), Somatic Experiencing is not listed as an exempt modality from massage practice acts in the United States, and is not eligible to belong to The Federation of Therapeutic Massage, Bodywork and Somatic Practice Organizations, which was formed to protect the members' right to practice as an independent profession.
Members of the Federation each have a professional regulating body with an enforceable code of ethics and standards of practice, continuing education requirements, a process of certifying and ensuring competency and a minimum of 500 hours of training.
Somatic Experiencing practitioners do not meet any of these criteria unless they are already certified or licensed in another discipline.
While the model has a growing evidence base as a modality "for treating people with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)" that "integrates body awareness into the psychotherapeutic process", it is important to note that not all Somatic Experiencing practitioners practice psychotherapy and therefore have varying scopes of practice, for example, not all are qualified to work with people with mental disorders.
SE instructs participants that they "are responsible for operating within their professional scope of practice and for abiding by state and federal laws".


Peter Levine
Peter Alan Levine (born 1942) is an American psychotraumatologist and psychologist.
As a psychotherapist, he offers lectures, advanced training and seminars on SE he founded worldwide.
He described his understanding of coherence with the acronym SIBAM (sensation, image, behavior, affect and meaning).
For Levine, a complete phenomenological experience is only given with the simultaneous activation of those five aspects.
In the case of coherence, all five elements of consciousness combine with one another.
Trauma creates a fragmentation of the coherence of experience.
Separately from the meaning, an image triggers an affect, e.g.
black rubber boots trigger the impulse to flee.
The here and now becomes there and then.
By emphasizing only two of the channels of the SIBAM model, cognition and behavior, cognitive behavioral therapy ignores three very important aspects of coherent experience, sensation, image and affect.
In his book Waking the Tiger, Levine estimates that a hundred million Americans experienced childhood sexual and physical abuse.
In October 2010 he received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Association of Body Psychotherapists.

In September 2024, Levine appeared as a guest on The Mental Illness Happy Hour podcast.


See also

Body psychotherapy – Academic discipline
Embodied cognition – Interdisciplinary theory
Psychosomatic medicine – Interdisciplinary medical field exploring various influences on bodily processes


References


Further reading
Peter A.
Levine, Trauma and Memory: Brain and Body in a Search for the Living Past: A Practical Guide for Understanding and Working with Traumatic Memory Paperback – Illustrated, North Atlantic Books, October 27, 2015
Peter A.
Levine, Waking the Tiger: Healing Trauma: explains how trauma effects the brain-body: Paperback - North Atlantic Books, July 7, 1997
Other books by Levine include:

Healing Trauma: A Pioneering Program for Restoring the Wisdom of Your Body.
Sounds True (January 1, 2005).
ISBN 978-159179247
(With Maggie Kline) Trauma Through a Child's Eyes: Awakening the Ordinary Miracle of Healing.
North Atlantic Books; 1st edition (December 26, 2006).
ISBN 978-1556436307
(With Maggie Kline) Trauma-Proofing Your Kids: A Parents' Guide for Instilling Confidence, Joy and Resilience.
North Atlantic Books; Illustrated edition (March 4, 2008).
ISBN 978-1556436994
(With Maggie Kline) Freedom from Pain: Discover Your Body's Power to Overcome Physical Pain.
Sounds True; 1st edition (May 1, 2012).
ISBN 978-1604076639
In an Unspoken Voice: How the Body Releases Trauma and Restores Goodness.
North Atlantic Books; 1st edition (October 30, 2012).
ISBN 978-1556439438.
Foreword by Gabor Maté.
An Autobiography of Trauma: A Healing Journey.
Park Street Press (April 2, 2024).
ISBN 979-8888500767

List of Bemmeridae species
This page lists all described species of the spider family Bemmeridae accepted by the World Spider Catalog as of January 2021:


Atmetochilus
Atmetochilus Simon, 1887

A.
atriceps Pocock, 1900 — Myanmar
A.
fossor Simon, 1887 (type) — Myanmar
A.
koponeni Zonstein & Marusik, 2016 — Indonesia (Sumatra)
A.
lehtineni Zonstein & Marusik, 2016 — Indonesia (Sumatra)
A.
songsangchotei Kunsete & Warrit, 2020 — Thailand
A.
sumatranus Zonstein & Marusik, 2016 — Indonesia (Sumatra)


Damarchus
Damarchus Thorell, 1891

D.
assamensis Hirst, 1909 — India
D.
bifidus Gravely, 1935 — India
D.
cavernicola Abraham, 1924 — Malaysia
D.
montanus (Thorell, 1890) — Indonesia (Sumatra)
D.
oatesi Thorell, 1895 — Myanmar
D.
workmani Thorell, 1891 (type) — Singapore


Homostola
Homostola Simon, 1892

H.
abernethyi (Purcell, 1903) — South Africa
H.
pardalina (Hewitt, 1913) — South Africa
H.
reticulata (Purcell, 1902) — South Africa
H.
vulpecula Simon, 1892 (type) — South Africa
H.
zebrina Purcell, 1902 — South Africa


Spiroctenus
Spiroctenus Simon, 1889

S.
armatus Hewitt, 1913 — South Africa
S.
broomi Tucker, 1917 — South Africa
S.
cambierae (Purcell, 1902) — South Africa
S.
coeruleus Lawrence, 1952 — South Africa
S.
collinus (Pocock, 1900) — South Africa
S.
curvipes Hewitt, 1919 — South Africa
S.
exilis Lawrence, 1938 — South Africa
S.
flavopunctatus (Purcell, 1903) — South Africa
S.
fossorius (Pocock, 1900) — South Africa
S.
fuligineus (Pocock, 1902) — South Africa
S.
gooldi (Purcell, 1903) — South Africa
S.
inermis (Purcell, 1902) — South Africa
S.
latus Purcell, 1904 — South Africa
S.
lightfooti (Purcell, 1902) — South Africa
S.
lignicola Lawrence, 1937 — South Africa
S.
londinensis Hewitt, 1919 — South Africa
S.
marleyi Hewitt, 1919 — South Africa
S.
minor (Hewitt, 1913) — South Africa
S.
pallidipes Purcell, 1904 — South Africa
S.
pardalina (Simon, 1903) — South Africa
S.
pectiniger (Simon, 1903) — South Africa
S.
personatus Simon, 1889 (type) — Southern Africa
S.
pilosus Tucker, 1917 — South Africa
S.
punctatus Hewitt, 1916 — South Africa
S.
purcelli Tucker, 1917 — South Africa
S.
sagittarius (Purcell, 1902) — South Africa
S.
schreineri (Purcell, 1903) — South Africa
S.
spinipalpis Hewitt, 1919 — South Africa
S.
tricalcaratus (Purcell, 1903) — South Africa
S.
validus (Purcell, 1902) — South Africa


References

Guaicaipuro Municipality
Guaicaipuro is one of the 21 municipalities (municipios) that makes up the Venezuelan state of Miranda and, according to a 2007 population estimate by the National Institute of Statistics of Venezuela, the municipality has a population of 280,687.
 The town of Los Teques is the municipal seat of the Guaicaipuro Municipality.
The municipality is named for the sixteenth century cacique Guaicaipuro.


History
The city of Los Teques was founded in 1777 and was named after the Aractoeques Carabs, an indigenous tribe that once inhabited the area.
 On February 13, 1927, the capital of Miranda was moved to this city from Petare (before being in Petare, the capital of Miranda was in Ocumare del Tuy).


Geography
Temperature: Varies from 18 and 26 degrees Celsius.


Demographics
The Guaicaipuro Municipality, according to a 2007 population estimate by the National Institute of Statistics of Venezuela, has a population of 280,687 (up from 240,731 in 2000).
 This amounts to 9.8% of the state's population.
 The municipality's population density is 424.64 inhabitants per square kilometre (1,099.8/sq mi).


Government
The mayor of the Guaicaipuro Municipality is Francisco Garcés, elected on December 8, 2013, with 52% of the vote.
The municipality is divided into seven parishes; Los Teques, Altagracia de La Montaña, Cecilio Acosta, El Jarillo, Paracotos, San Pedro, and Tácata.


Transportation
On November 3, 2006, President Hugo Chávez inaugurated the Los Teques Metro.
 This metro system is connected to the Caracas Metro.


References

A882 road
The A882 road is entirely within Caithness in the Highland area of Scotland.
It has a length of about 23 kilometres (14 mi) and runs generally west/northwest from the A99 in the county town of Wick to the A9 in the Georgemas area.
About 12 kilometres (7.5 mi) from Wick the road passes through the village of Watten, where it is crossed by the B870.

The A882 is part of the most direct route between Wick and the burgh of Thurso: 8 kilometres (5.0 mi) of the A9 complete the route.
Between Wick and Watten the traveller has Wick River to the right.
The road crosses the river at Watten.
Between Watten and Georgemas Loch Watten and Loch Scarmclate are to the right.
The traveller who continues to Thurso on the A9 will have the River Thurso to the left.


Towns, villages and junctions
The A882 runs through or near towns and villages listed below.
Junctions listed are with other classified roads.


External links
 Media related to A882 road (Scotland) at Wikimedia Commons

John Gould Veitch
John Gould Veitch (April 1839 – 13 August 1870) was a British horticulturist and traveller, one of the first Victorian plant hunters to visit Japan.
A great-grandson of John Veitch, the founder of the Veitch horticulture dynasty, he also visited the Philippines, Australia, Fiji, and other Polynesian islands.
He brought back a number of the glasshouse plants in vogue at the time, such as Acalyphas, Cordylines, Codiaeums (Crotons) and Dracaenas, and, from Fiji, a palm of a new genus later named after him, Veitchia joannis.
The Veitch family name is honoured by hundreds of plant names, including the genus Veitchia.
The Veitch nursery introduced 232 orchids, some 500 greenhouse plants, 118 exotic ferns, about 50 conifers, 153 deciduous trees, 72 evergreen and climbing shrubs, 122 herbaceous and 37 bulbous plants from various corners of the globe.
In Japan, he came across the eminent plant collector Robert Fortune, and their competing collections returned to England on the same ship.
For example, both men claimed discovery of a species of Chamaecyparis pisifera.
The Veitch Nursery on Kingston Coombe site, established a Japanese Water Garden adjacent to Warren House.
It's legacy lives on today in a Veitch Heritage Garden.
He was married to Jane Hodge soon after his return to England in 1866 and fathered two sons,  James Herbert Veitch  (1868 – 1907) and John Gould Veitch, Jr.
(1869 – 1914) before dying of tuberculosis at the age of 31.He is buried in Brompton Cemetery and according to their burial registers, he died at the Coombe Wood Nursery on Kingston Hill.


References


External links

"John Gould Veitch 1839 - 1870", by Ian Edwards, The Tropical Garden Society of Sydney Archived 7 August 2008 at the Wayback Machine
Biography on www.anbg.gov.au

Downingia ornatissima
Downingia ornatissima is a species of flowering plant in the bellflower family known by the common name folded calicoflower.
This showy wildflower is endemic to California, where it is a resident of vernal pools and other wet places in the Central Valley.
This annual grows an erect, branching stem with usually one tubular flower at the top of each branch.
The flower has an upper lip made up of two narrow, pointed lobes in shades of light purple, and a lower lip made up of three lobes fused into one surface, which is the same color as the upper lip and has a central field of white with two prominent yellow projections.
The flower is similar to those of other downingias, except it is lightly crinkled, with the upper lobes often curled back and the edges of the lower lobes uneven.
The dark blue anther just emerges from where it is tucked between the upper lobes.


References


External links
Jepson Manual Treatment
Photo gallery

Accounting standard
Publicly traded companies typically are subject to rigorous standards.
Small and midsized businesses often follow more simplified standards, plus any specific disclosures required by their specific lenders and shareholders.
Some firms operate on the cash method of accounting which can often be simple and straightforward.
Larger firms most often operate on an accrual basis.
Accrual basis is one of the fundamental accounting assumptions, and if it is followed by the company while preparing the financial statements, then no further disclosure is required.
Accounting standards prescribe in considerable detail what accruals must be made, how the financial statements are to be presented, and what additional disclosures are required.
The term generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) was popularized in the late 1930s.
Some important elements that accounting standards cover include identifying the exact entity which is reporting, discussing any "going concern" questions, specifying monetary units, and reporting time frames.
In the public sector, 30% of 165 governments surveyed used  accrual accounting, rather than cash accounting, in 2020.


Benefits
The lack of transparent accounting standards in some nations has been cited as increasing the difficulty of doing business there.
In particular, the Asian financial meltdown in the late 1990s has been partially attributed to the lack of detailed accounting standards.
Giant firms in some Asian countries were able to take advantage of their poorly devised accounting standards to cover up immense debts and losses, which yielded a collective effect that eventually led the whole region into financial crisis.


Limitations
The notable limitations of accounting standards are their inflexibility, the time-consuming process of creating them, the difficulty of choosing between alternative treatments and their restrictive scope.
Accounting standards were largely written in the early 21st century.
Accounting scandals such as Worldcom and Enron illustrate that, despite all these efforts, widespread fraud can still occur, and even be missed by the outside auditors.


Accounting standards by nation
Canada – Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (Canada)
China – Chinese Accounting Standards (Zhōngguó qǐyè kuàijì zhǔnzé 中国企业会计准则)
France – Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (Plan Comptable Général)
Germany – Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (Grundsätze ordnungsmäßiger Buchführung)
India – Indian Accounting Standards (Ind_AS) can be used by any company governed by the rules and regulations of the Companies Act 2013, while Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (USA) are used by foreign and multinational companies in India
Italy – Principi contabili nazionali
Luxembourg – Luxembourg Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (Lux GAAP)
Nepal – Nepal Financial Reporting Standards
Russia – Russian GAAP
Sweden – BAS (accounting)
Switzerland – Swiss GAAP FER (Fachempfehlungen zur Rechnungslegung)
Turkey – Uniform Accounting Plan (Turkey)
United Kingdom – Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK)
United States – Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (United States).
Domestic firms typically report in this format.
Foreign firms that trade in the U.S.
typically report in IFRS format (below).
Statutory accounting principles are used by insurance companies in the US.


Global standardization and IFRS
Many countries use or are converging on the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) that were established and are maintained by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In some countries, local accounting principles are applied for regular companies but listed or large companies must conform to IFRS, so statutory reporting is comparable internationally.
All listed and grouped EU companies have been required to use IFRS since 2005.
Canada moved in 2009, Taiwan in 2013, and other countries are adopting local versions.
In the United States, while "...the SEC published a statement of continued support for a single set of high-quality, globally accepted accounting standards, and acknowledged that IFRS is best positioned to serve this role..." progress is less evident.


See also
Constant item purchasing power accounting
Convention of consistency
Convergence of accounting standards
Creative accounting
Forensic accounting
Philosophy of accounting


References


Further reading
Meeks, Geoff, and GM Peter Swann.
"Accounting standards and the economics of standards." Accounting and Business Research 39.3 (2009): 191-210m


External links
 Media related to Accounting standard at Wikimedia Commons
FASAB Handbook of Federal Accounting Standards (2014)

Striped bandicoot
The striped bandicoot (Microperoryctes longicauda) is a species of marsupial in the family Peramelidae.
It is found in West Papua and Papua New Guinea.
Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical dry forests.
The striped bandicoot is a host of the Acanthocephalan intestinal parasite Australiformis semoni.


References

I'm Blue (The Gong-Gong Song)
"I'm Blue (The Gong-Gong Song)" is a song written by Ike Turner and recorded by Ike & Tina Turner's backing trio The Ikettes in 1961.
In 2017, Billboard ranked the song No.
63 on their list of 100 Greatest Girl Group Songs of All Time.


Overview
Like most of the Ike & Tina Turner Revue's music during this time, it was recorded while the group was on the road.
By 1961, the formerly known Artettes had been singing as a backing trio with Ike & Tina for over a year, having been involved since the hit, "A Fool in Love".
To bide time in the studio, Ike Turner wrote a song custom-made for the girl group.
Tina Turner herself was involved in the recording, helping to arrange the vocals and could be heard singing along in the background.
Ike Turner credited the song's production to him and Tina.
Since Ike & Tina recorded for Sue Records, Ike Turner decided to distribute the record to another company, agreeing to sign an advance to Atlantic Records' Atco subsidiary in late 1961 for the song.
Released in November 1961, the song became a national hit reaching No.
19 on the Billboard Hot 100 and No.
3 on the R&B chart.
"I'm Blue (The Gong-Gong Song)" was the fifth hit single associated with the Ike & Tina Turner Revue and the first of three charting singles for the original Ikettes between 1962 and 1965.


Later versions and samples
The song would later be recorded by:

The Spencer Davis Group
The Newbeats on their debut album Bread & Butter
Sylvie Vartan (called "Gong Gong" and recorded in French)
The Shangri-Las
The Sweet Inspirations
Decades later, the song, in its Sweet Inspirations version, would famously be sampled by Salt-n-Pepa on their 1993 hit, "Shoop".
Upon hearing of the news of his song being sampled, Ike Turner re-recorded the song with Joe Louis Walker that same year.


In popular culture
"I'm Blue (The Gong-Gong Song)" is featured on the soundtrack of the 1988 film Hairspray
The song also appears in Kill Bill Volume 1, where it is performed by The 5.6.7.8's.


Chart performance


Personnel
Lead vocal by Delores Johnson
Background vocals by Joshie Armstead, Eloise Hester and Tina Turner
Instrumentation by Ike Turner (piano) and The Kings of Rhythm
Written by Ike Turner
Produced by Ike Turner and Tina Turner (listed as "A I-&-T-T Production")


References

Morse station
Morse is an 'L' station on the CTA's Red Line.
It is located at 1358 West Morse Avenue in the Rogers Park neighborhood of Chicago, Illinois.
The station was formerly known as Rogers Park or Morse-Rogers Park.
There is an entrance/exit on West Morse Avenue, featuring multiple turnstiles, an ATM, and fare machines.
There is also an unattended entrance/exit with a single turnstile on Lunt Avenue.
Purple Line weekday rush hour express service use the outside tracks but do not stop at this station.


History
The station was first constructed in 1908, and was rebuilt in 1921 as the line was elevated.
This mostly brick-and-concrete station remains today, although the station was extensively renovated in 2012.
The wooden platform was replaced with a new concrete platform, and the interior of the Morse Avenue station house was completely gutted and rebuilt.
During this time, the station house was also expanded into an unused adjacent retail space.
Shortly after this renovation, an empty storefront adjacent to the Lunt Avenue exit was demolished, and a bicycle parking lot was constructed in its place.
Each year since 2001 the Glenwood Arts Festival has been held on Glenwood Avenue, which includes live music, pop-up art shops, and local food vendors.


Stroller controversy

On November 2, 2009, an incident occurred at the Morse station involving a child in a stroller; the incident is under some dispute.
Ebere Ozonwu claimed that as she was rushing to catch a southbound train, pushing her daughter ahead of her in a stroller, the train's doors closed on the stroller and dragged it, eventually flinging her daughter onto the gravel at the end of the platform and carrying the stroller away.
Traces of paint found on the stroller, possibly from the guardrail at the end of the platform, seemed to confirm this story, but the operator claimed that the doors were carefully checked and the train could not have moved if the doors were not closed.


Location
The Morse station is at the heart of the Rogers Park neighborhood on Chicago's North Side.
The station is 1⁄2 mile (0.80 km) east of the Rogers Park Metra commuter railroad station on Lunt Avenue and 1⁄2 mile (0.80 km) west of Lake Michigan.
Several businesses are housed in the building containing the station.
Under the Morse Avenue viaduct are Morse El Liquors and Leni Blumyin.
Many businesses have claimed the corner of the Morse Red Line, Morse Avenue and Glenwood Avenue as home.
Pub 626 occupies the northeast corner of Morse and Glenwood.
The family-owned Heartland Cafe was located across the street from the Lunt Avenue entrance/exit at 7000 North Glenwood Avenue for 42 years until December 31, 2018.
The building was demolished in May 2019.
There are also multiple markets, bodegas, and small corner stores scattered within a half block radius of Morse.
Rogers Park Social  recently moved into a building on Glenwood Avenue.
The Morse station is also within walking distance of multiple schools:

Eugene Field Elementary School 
George B.
Armstrong International Studies 
Northside Catholic Academy 
New Field Elementary School 
Chicago Math and Science Academy 
Many murals have been painted on the sides of the rail line, on Glenwood Avenue, as well as underneath the tracks on Morse and Lunt Avenue, called the Miles of Murals.


Bus connections
CTA

96 Lunt (Weekdays only)
155 Devon


Payment
Transit Cards were initially used as payment, which riders could refill with money at all transit stops.
CTA changed to Ventra Cards on July 1, 2014, as official payment for all transit system.
A one-way trip on the train to any stop, whether it be on the Red Line, or a free transfer to any other conjoined rail line, is $2.50.
Transfers within 2 hours are 25 cents.
Ventra Cards can be purchased at local drugstores, underneath any train station, and through a credit card which can be used as a venture card, immediately taking money out of a passenger's account when it is tapped on the payment pad before getting on the platform.


References


External links
 Media related to Morse (CTA) at Wikimedia Commons

Train schedule (PDF) at CTA official site
Morse Station page at Chicago-L.org
Morse Station page
Lunt Avenue entrance from Google Maps Street View
Morse Avenue entrance from Google Maps Street View
Ventra Chicago

Murder of Ahora Murthi Krishnasamy
On 21 December 1973, nearby a Kampong Kapor community centre, 24-year-old crane driver Ahora Murthi Krishnasamy was stabbed to death by a Malaysian labourer after he sought to resolve a previous dispute between the killer and Murthi's friend.
The murderer, K.
Vijayan Krishnan, was arrested and charged with murder.
Vijayan put up a defence that he was gravely provoked into using a chopper to inflict 11 stab wounds on Murthi, causing Murthi's death.
However, the defence was rejected on the grounds that Vijayan had intentionally killed Murthi and was not provoked into killing Murthi, and Vijayan was found guilty of murdering Murthi and sentenced to death in November 1974.
Vijayan's execution was carried out on 30 April 1976, after the higher courts rejected Vijayan's appeals and confirmed his death sentence.


Fatal stabbing
On the night of 21 December 1973, a young man was stabbed to death outside a Kampong Kapor community centre, and a youth was arrested for the stabbing, which was classified as murder.
The motive for the stabbing was not known at that point of time, and police investigations were conducted to find out the reason behind the killing.
The victim was identified as 24-year-old Ahora Murthi Krishnasamy, who worked as a crane driver at the time of his death.
Professor Chao Tzee Cheng, a senior forensic pathologist, conducted an autopsy on the victim, and he found that Murthi sustained a total of 11 stab wounds on his body, and one of them penetrated the heart while another had cut through the right lung; both these injuries were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
On 23 December 1973, the suspect, a 21-year-old Malaysian whose name was K.
Vijayan Krishnan, was charged with murder under the name "Sukumaran Krishnan".
Prior to the murder, Vijayan came from the Malaysian state of Johor, and he worked as a labourer.
He was later remanded at the Central Police Division for further investigations after his indictment in court.


Murder trial

On 11 November 1974, K.
Vijayan Krishnan officially stood trial at the High Court for the murder of Ahora Murthi Krishnasamy.
Defence lawyer Ng Kong Yeam represented Vijayan, while Deputy Public Prosecutor (DPP) Lawrence Ang led the prosecution, and the trial was presided over by two judges - Justice T Kulasekaram and Justice A V Winslow.
The trial court was told that one night in December, just days prior to the murder, there was a dispute between two roommates living at a Serangoon rental flat, caused by the two men kicking each other while sleeping.
It evolved into an argument, and Vijayan, who knew one of the roommates, had made threats against the other party and his friends.
A man named Mutayan, who was threatened by Vijayan, decided to seek the help of Murthi to help bury the hatchet between the parties involved in the dispute.
Subramaniam Gopal, Murthi's friend who was present with him at the time of the murder, testified that he and Murthi went together to the house in Kampong Kapor to look for Vijayan, hoping to resolve the matter, and he added that  Murthi was intoxicated by alcohol when he made the request.
Upon the duo's arrival at Vijayan's house, Murthi and Vijayan shook hands after they came to an agreement to resolve the matter.
However, based on the facts brought forward, Murthi began to shout repeatedly while in a drunken state, and he allegedly said, "Who has given houses to Malaysians?" when he asked who Vijayan's girlfriend was, and he also challenged him to a fight.
According to the witnesses present at the scene, Vijayan went to grab a meat chopper from his house and he attacked Murthi, and gave chase after Murthi.
By the time they reached Kampong Kapor community centre, Vijayan had stabbed Murthi 11 times, causing Murthi's death.
Vijayan was arrested on the scene for the murder, and many witnesses identified him as the perpetrator.
During Subramaniam's time on the stand, the defence subjected him to a severe cross-examination and brought forward their contention that Murthi had, in fact, attacked Vijayan with a chopper and Vijayan acted in self-defence by disarming Murthi and used the chopper to kill him, which was denied by Subramaniam.
The defence also suggested to Subramaniam that Murthi had assaulted and continually abused Vijayan, and Subramaniam had taken part in the assault, and these were likewise denied by Subramaniam.
The prosecution later re-examined Subramaniam, who stated that Murthi was clearly drunk from the onset and it would have been apparent to anyone else at the scene.
At one point while making his testimony, Subramaniam was feeling unwell and another witness had to take his place to testify in court.
Vijayan's main defences were sudden and grave provocation and self-defence.
After he opted to enter his defence, Vijayan testified that Murthi approached him and threatened that he would kill him since he had previously murdered people before, and aside from verbally abusing Vijayan, Murthi allegedly assaulted him and wanted to use a chopper to use on Vijayan, and Subramaniam also came to beat him.
Vijayan claimed that he was angered at Murthi's actions and abuse, and a struggle therefore ensued between him and Murthi, and the chopper fell onto the ground.
Vijayan testified that he quickly retrieved the chopper before Murthi could do so, and attacked him using the chopper.
Vijayan denied that he intentionally murdered Murthi, and he summarily insisted that he killed Murthi in a moment of uncontrollable anger and instinctively out of self-defence.
On 26 November 1974, the trial judges - Justice A V Winslow and Justice T Kulasekaram - delivered their verdict, with Justice Winslow pronouncing the decision in court.
Justice Winslow stated that the judges unanimously considered Subramaniam and many other prosecution witnesses as "truthful witnesses", and they did not believe Vijayan's story.
The judges accepted the arguments of DPP Ang that there was no chopper attack or assault initiated by Murthi prior to the stabbing, and hence his claims of self-defence were not to be believed.
Additionally, the judges took issue with the other defence of sudden and grave provocation, finding that Vijayan was not provoked and had not lost his self-control at the time of the murder, given the fact that Murthi's words did not amount to provocative remarks and taking into consideration Murthi's state of intoxication at the material time, it was clear that Vijayan wanted to take this opportunity to finish off Murthi once and for all; this was corroborated by Vijayan's decision to grab ahold of the chopper, which showed that he intended to murder Murthi.
Based on the above findings, the trial court decided that there were sufficient grounds to return with a guilty verdict of murder in Vijayan's case.
Therefore, 21-year-old K.
Vijayan Krishnan was found guilty of murder, and sentenced to death by hanging.


Appeal process
On 22 April 1975, Vijayan's appeal was dismissed by the Court of Appeal.
The appellate court's three judges - Supreme Court judges Choor Singh and Tan Ah Tah, and Chief Justice Wee Chong Jin - dismissed the appeal on the grounds that the defence of sudden and grave provocation was untenable in light of Vijayan's disproportionate violence to the provocation given by Murthi in his drunken state.
They also referred to precedent court cases from India and cited that based on the "reasonable man test", any person belonging to the same class of society as Vijayan would not have become so provoked as to lose his self-control in similar situations or mental backgrounds like Vijayan's, which was also the reason behind the dismissal of Vijayan's appeal.
Vijayan was defended by veteran lawyer and opposition politician David Saul Marshall, while the prosecution was led by Tan Teow Yeow during the appeal session.
On 18 December 1975, Vijayan's second legal appeal was rejected by the Privy Council in London.
Similarly, on the same day, the Privy Council also rejected the appeals of both Pehn Kwan Jin and Jorge Belardo Belleza against their death sentences.
Pehn, a seaman, was found guilty of murdering a vegetable seller Tan Eng Kim in 1973 while Belleza, a mechanic of Filipino descent, was convicted of killing his lover Alice Ong in 1974.
Pehn and Belleza were both hanged since then; Pehn was executed on 16 April 1976 while Belleza's date of execution was unknown.
In a final bid to escape the gallows, Vijayan petitioned for clemency from the President of Singapore in February 1976.
However, his death sentence was not commuted due to the rejection of his plea.


Execution
K.
Vijayan Krishnan was hanged in Changi Prison at dawn on 30 April 1976.


Aftermath
In the aftermath of Vijayan's execution, his case became a precedent case study with regards to the defence of sudden and grave provocation.
Vijayan's case had an effect on other murder cases in Singapore.
Notably, in the case of Ithinin Kamari, who was charged with the double murder of Mohamed Johar Selamat and Mohd Said Abdul Majid in 1989.
His defence of sudden and grave provocation was rejected in accordance to the facts laid out by the Vijayan case, as Ithinin's actions of stabbing both Mohamed Johar and Mohd Said to death were out of proportion to the alleged verbal abuse he received from the victims, and his defence of sudden and grave provocation thus failed.
Ithinin was therefore convicted and given two death sentences for the double murder in 1992, and he was put to death after losing his appeal in 1993.
In 1998, Vijayan's case was recalled in light of the landmark ruling of the Kwan Cin Cheng case, where it pertained to a man charged with the murder of his girlfriend, Phang Ai Looi.
The ruling, which sentenced Kwan to life imprisonment for manslaughter, stated that per the "reasonable man test", Kwan's actions of killing Phang in an uncontrollable rage due to Phang insulting him and claiming she was happier with another man were done due to loss of self-control, based on the mental background where Kwan shared a de facto husband-wife relationship with Phang despite not being officially married, and his defence of sudden and grave provocation was accepted.
The Vijayan case and several others (including Ithinin) were recalled among the iconic cases of a murder suspect raising a defence of sudden and grave provocation in court against the murder charge.


See also
Capital punishment in Singapore


References

Tierra Bomba Island
Tierra Bomba is a Colombian island off the coast of Cartagena de Indias.
The island is within the legal administration of the municipality of Cartagena (City) in Bolívar Department, and covers a surface area of 19.84 km2 (1984.99 hectares) that house an estimated population of 9,000 people.


Naval Base
In January 2014, it was announced that Tierra Bomba Island will house the new Caribbean Naval Base of the Colombian Navy.
The naval base will be within the locality of Bocagrande and be 33.4 hectares in size.


See also
Caribbean region of Colombia


References

Francis Greville, 5th Earl of Warwick
Francis Richard Charles Guy Greville, 5th Earl of Warwick (9 February 1853 – 15 January 1924), styled Lord Brooke until 1893, was a British Conservative politician.


Early life
Greville was the son of George Greville, 4th Earl of Warwick, and his wife, Lady Anne, daughter of Francis Wemyss-Charteris, 9th Earl of Wemyss, and was educated at Eton and Christ Church, Oxford.
On 28 February 1874, he was appointed a supernumerary sub-lieutenant in the Warwickshire Yeomanry.
Brooke was appointed a deputy lieutenant of Warwickshire on 3 March 1875 and promoted to captain in the Yeomanry on 26 August 1876.


Career

He entered Parliament for Somerset East in an 1879 by-election, a seat he held until 1885, and later represented Colchester from 1888 to 1892.
The following year, Greville succeeded his father in the earldom and entered the House of Lords.
In August 1901, he was appointed Lord-Lieutenant of Essex, serving as such until 1919.
He was appointed deputy lieutenant of the county on 8 July 1919.
In November 1901 he was appointed Honorary Colonel of the new Essex Imperial Yeomanry Regiment, and in late 1901 he was elected Mayor of Warwick for the following year.
He was a senior Freemason under the United Grand Lodge of England, and rose to the office of Deputy Grand Master under the Grand Mastership of Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, later King Edward VII.
He was also a member of the Ancient Order of Druids (AOD); in August 1905 he was one of the British aristocrat members of the Order who participated in the first ceremony organized by the AOD at Stonehenge.


Personal life
Lord Warwick married Frances Evelyn Maynard (10 December 1861 – 26 July 1938), daughter of Charles Henry Maynard, in 1881.
 They had five children:

Leopold Guy Francis Maynard Greville, 6th Earl of Warwick (10 September 1882 – 31 January 1928)
Lady Marjorie Blanche Eva Greville (25 October 1884 – 25 July 1964); she married Charles Duncombe, 2nd Earl of Feversham
Charles Algernon Cromartie Greville (22 November 1885 – 28 March 1887)
Maynard Greville (21 March 1898 – 21 February 1960)
Lady Mercy Greville (3 April 1904 – 21 November 1968); actress under stage name Nancie Parsons.
 She married first Basil Dean and later, in 1936, Patrick Gamble.
The youngest two children were reputedly fathered by one of the countess' lovers, millionaire bachelor Joseph Laycock.
Francis Greville, 5th Earl of Warwick died in January 1924, aged 70, and is buried in the Collegiate Church of St Mary, Warwick.
He was succeeded in the earldom by his eldest son Leopold.
The Countess of Warwick died in July 1938, aged 76.


References


Further reading
Kidd, Charles, Williamson, David (editors).
Debrett's Peerage and Baronetage (1990 edition).
New York: St Martin's Press, 1990, 
Leigh Rayment's Peerage Pages  
Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs  
Lundy, Darryl.
"FAQ".
The Peerage.


External links
 Media related to Francis Greville, 5th Earl of Warwick at Wikimedia Commons
Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by the Earl of Warwick

Maria Kulle
Hulda Maria Charlotte Kulle (born 26 April 1960) is a Swedish actress.
She is the daughter of the actor Jarl Kulle and Louise Hermelin.
Kulle began studying at the Malmö Theatre Academy in 1985 and graduated in 1988.
Since then she works/has worked at Malmö, Stockholm and Helsingborg City Theatre.
In 2005 she received a Guldbagge for her role as Anna in the 2004 film Four Shades of Brown.
In 2011 she received Helsingborgs Dagblads kulturpris.
Kulle is married to Lars-Erik Berenett, with whom she has a son.


Filmography


Film
The Pitfall (1989)
The Tattooed Widow (1998)
Deadline (2001)
Kim Novak badade aldrig i Genesarets sjö (2005)
Allt om min buske (2007)
Everlasting Moments (2008)
Ted – För kärlekens skull (2018)


Television
Wallander (2006)
Gynekologen i Askim (2007–2011)
Bibliotekstjuven (2011)
Crimes of Passion (2013)
Fröken Frimans krig (2013–17)
The Bridge (2015–18)


References


External links
Maria Kulle at IMDb
Swedish Film Database

Simon of Clermont-Nesle (bishop)
Simon of Clermont-Nesle (after 1250 – 22 December 1312 or c.
February 1313), Peer of France and bishop of Noyon (1297–1301) and Bishop-count of Beauvais (1301–c.
1312).
Simon was one of few bishops that supported King Philip IV "the fair" of France against Pope Boniface VIII (c.
1235–1303), to strengthen the monarchy and make the Church support the state's finances in the time of war, while the Pope demanded the privilege of exemption from tax, in spite of extreme wealth, and proclaimed that the Pope is above every king in authority, but the king engaged the best available lawyers for his case.

The conflict led in 1309 to the moving of the Papal court, under Pope Clement V (c.
1264–1314), to Avignon, outside the king's realm.


Family background
Simon was a son of Simon II of Clermont, Seigneur of Ailly, Maulette and Nesle (c.
1216–1286) by Adele of Montfort (d.
1279), daughter of Amaury VI of Montfort.
The father was a counsellor of King "Saint" Louis IX of France and was appointed regent ("lieutenant") while the king went away on the Seventh Crusade.
Simon had three brothers and at least one sister, whose son was the famous Robert VIII Bertrand (fr), a Marshal of France.
His brothers were famous French generals, Raoul of Clermont, Viscount of Châteaudun and Seigneur of Nesle, Constable and Grand Chamberlain of France, and Guy I of Clermont, Marshal of France, Seigneur of Offemont and Ailly, both killed 1302 in the Battle of the Golden Spurs.


Ancestry


References
Family tree of Clermont-Beauvaisis-Nesle (in French)

Download This Show
Download This Show is an Australian weekly radio program and podcast produced by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC).
It airs on ABC Radio National and is also available as a podcast via the ABC listen app.
The show focuses on current issues in technology, media, and digital culture.
Each 30-minute episode features panel discussions and interviews with industry guests who discuss topics such as social media, streaming platforms, online privacy, and video games.
Download This Show premiered in 2012 and was originally hosted by journalist Marc Fennell.
In 2025, hosting duties were taken over by technology journalist Rae Johnston.


Recognition and awards
In 2012, iTunes Australia named Download This Show the best new podcast, and it has won Best Audio Program at the Australian IT Journalism Awards ("The Lizzies") many times.
It won Best Outlet in the 2023 Lizzies.


References


External links
Official ABC page
Marc Fennell's Download This Show page
Rae Johnston’s official website

Smokin' Taters!
Smokin' Taters!
is an album by the Kentucky-based cowpunk band Nine Pound Hammer.
It was released in 1992.
The band supported the album with a European tour.
Some demos were recorded in Glasgow in 1990.
"Long Gone Daddy" is a cover of the Hank Williams song.


Critical reception
Trouser Press wrote that the album "smokes out of the speakers with redoubled purpose and fluid, road-tested rockabilly punk."


Track listing
Long Gone Daddy
Cadillac Inn
Everything You Know Is Wrong
Feelin' Kinda Froggy
Don't Get No
Folsom Prison Blues
Turned Traitor For A Piece Of Tail
I'm On Fire
Wrong Side Of The Road
Head Bangin' Stock Boy
Surfabilly
Weasel, The


Personnel
Blaine Cartwright - Guitar
Rob Hulsman - Drums
Matt Bartholomy - Bass
Scott Luallen - Vocals
Bill & Michelle - Backing Vocals
Michael Mariconda - Producer
Albert Caiati - Engineer


References


External links
Discogs

The Rockin' Ramrods
The Rockin’ Ramrods were an American garage rock band from Boston, Massachusetts, who were active in the 1960s and early 1970s.
 Along with the Barbarians, the Remains and the Lost, they were one of the most popular acts in the Boston area.
 While they did not achieve national success, their work is today well-regarded by garage rock collectors and enthusiasts.
 They are perhaps best remembered for the 1964 protopunk anthem "She Lied."  Though best known as the Rockin’ Ramrods, they recorded under other names.
 They recorded one single as the GTO's.


History
The group was founded in 1962 as the Ramrods Four by Boston residents Bill Linnane and Vin Campisi.
 They began as a surf rock unit who played primarily instrumentals, eventually modifying their name to the Rockin' Ramrods.
 Their original lineup consisted of Bill Linnane guitar and keyboards, Vin Campisi on guitar, Bob Blake on bass, and Butch Holmes on drums, but in 1963 Vin Campisi's brother Ronn replaced Blake on bass and Bob Henderson became the group's drummer.
 Both Ronn Campisi and Henderson would become important fixtures in the group over the next several years.
 The Rockin' Ramrods released their first single "Jungle Call" b/w "Indian Giver" on Explosive Records in late 1963.
In 1964 as instrumental groups lost favor after the onset of the Beatles and the British Invasion, the Rockin' Ramrods switched to the practice of using vocals in most of their songs.
 Guitarist Ronn Campisi began to handle most of the band's lead vocals, although other group members, such as drummer Bob Henderson, would also sing leads and backups.
   In April of that year, the band cut a single featuring the grinding protopunk of "She Lied," written by Bill Linnane and Ronn Campisi, for Bon-Bon Records, backed with "The Girl Can’t Help It."  Guitarist and keyboardist Linnane was largely responsible for the group's hard-driving early sound,
In the Fall of 1965, they opened for the Rolling Stones, along with the Blue Belles Vibrations.
 In December 1964 the Rockin' Ramrods had cut a version of "I Wanna Be Your Man" that John Lennon and Paul McCartney had written for the Rolling Stones' first single in 1963 and which the Beatles later recorded for their second album in England, With the Beatles.
 On the flipside was an obscure Lennon/McCartney number, "I'll Be on My Way."  In 1965 the band released their next 45, "Wild About You" b/w "Cry in my Room" on the Southern Sound label, followed by a record they released under another name, the GTO's, "Don't Fool With Fu Manchu" b/w "Tears in the Stones" for the Claridge label.
 The band made an appearance in the movie Disk-o-Tek Holiday, filmed in 1965 while Scott Curtis was their keyboardist.
 At the end of the year, Scott Curtis departed and was replaced by Lenny Cirelli.
Several anthologies have been released featuring the band's collected work.
 The French label Eva Records issued the LP compilation I Wanna Be Your Man in 1983.
 Big Beat Records released The Best Of The Rockin' Ramrods in 1995.
 In 2000, Akarma Records, out of Italy, issued their own compilation of the same name, The Best Of The Rockin' Ramrods.


Personnel


Circa 1963
Bill Linnane (guitar and keyboards)
Vin Campisi (guitar)
Bob Blake (guitar)
Butch Holmes (drums)


Circa.
1964
Bill Linnane (guitar, keyboards, and vocals)
Vin Campisi (guitar and vocals)
Ron Campisi (guitar and vocals)
Bob Henderson (drums and vocals)


Circa.
1965
Bill Linnane (guitar, keyboards, and vocals)
Scott Curtis (organ and vocals) replacing Linnane
Vin Campisi (guitar and vocals)
Ron Campisi (bass and vocals)
Bob Henderson (drums and vocals)


Circa.
1966-1967
Vinn Campisi (guitar and vocals)
Ron Campisi (bass and vocals)
Lenny Cirelli (organ)
Bob Henderson (drums and vocals)


Circa.
1968
Vin Campisi (guitar and vocals)
Ronn Campisi (bass and vocals)
Lenny Cirelli(organ)
Bob Henderson (drums and vocals)
David Allen Ryan, after Ronn left the group (bass and most lead vocals)
Jim Mandell came in to replace Len Cirelli (vocals and keyboard)


Discography


Singles (as the Rockin' Ramrods)
"Jungle Call" b/w "Indian Giver" (Explosive #F-102, 1963)
"She Lied" b/w "The Girl Can’t Help It" (Bon-Bon 1315, April 1964)
"I Wanna Be Your Man" b/w "I’ll Be on My Way" (Plymouth 2961/2962, December 1964)
"Wild About You" b/w "Cry in My Room" (Southern Sound 205, July 1965)
"Don’t Fool with Fu Manchu" b/w "Tears Melt the Stones" (as the GTO's) (Claridge 301, November 1965)
"Play It" b/w "Got My Mojo Workin'" (Claridge 317, April 1966)
"Bright Lit, Blues Skies" b/w "Mister Wind" (Plymouth 2964, July 1966)
"Flowers in My Mind" b/w "Mary, Mary" (Plymouth 2965, 1967)


References


External links
The Rockin' Ramrods discography at Discogs

Hans Blum (musician)
Hans Blum (23 May 1928 – 15 March 2024), also known as Henry Valentino, was a German singer-songwriter known for his distinctive musical style, which has been the inspiration of a generation of German musicians.
His recordings include the hit single "Im Wagen vor mir." 


Career
He wrote and conducted three entries that represented Germany in the Eurovision Song Contest: "Anouschka" (performed by Inge Brück in 1967), "Primaballerina" (performed by Siw Malmkvist in 1969), and "Über die Brücke geh'n" (performed by Ingrid Peters in 1986).
He had a hit in 1977 with "Im Wagen vor mir" which was a duet with Uschi.
Uschi died and Valentino re-recorded the song with Daffi Cramer.


Death
Blum died on 15 March 2024, at the age of 95.


Discography
Major studio albums:

1991: Im Wagen vor mir
1997: ...Etwas für Liebhaber
1999: Zu Zweit Macht's Mehr Spass
2001: Henry Valentino's Hitbox
2004: Ich Hab' Dein Knie Geseh'n
2006: Eine Liebe Ist Wie ein Lied


Influence
Hans Blum has been a major inspiration for a long range of German musicians and has enjoyed an extensive international recognition for the hit single "Im Wagen vor mir".


See also
List of best selling music artists


References


External links
Biography on http://www.andtheconductoris.eu/
Hans Blum discography at Discogs
Hans Blum at IMDb

Arrondissement of Provins
The arrondissement of Provins is an arrondissement of France in the Seine-et-Marne department in the Île-de-France region.
It has 174 communes.
Its population is 186,339 (2021), and its area is 2,344.6 km2 (905.3 sq mi).


Composition
The communes of the arrondissement of Provins, and their INSEE codes, are:


History
The arrondissement of Provins was created in 1800.
In 2006 it absorbed the canton of Rebais from the arrondissement of Meaux, and the canton of Rozay-en-Brie from the arrondissement of Melun.
At the January 2017 reorganisation of the arrondissements of Seine-et-Marne, it received seven communes from the arrondissement of Fontainebleau, 15 communes from the arrondissement of Melun and two communes from the arrondissement of Torcy, and it lost 10 communes to the arrondissement of Meaux.
In December 2017 the communes Ferrières-en-Brie and Pontcarré passed from the arrondissement of Provins to the arrondissement of Torcy.
In August 2018 the communes Villeneuve-le-Comte and Villeneuve-Saint-Denis passed from the arrondissement of Provins to the arrondissement of Torcy.
As a result of the reorganisation of the cantons of France which came into effect in 2015, the borders of the cantons are no longer related to the borders of the arrondissements.
The cantons of the arrondissement of Provins were, as of January 2015:


References

Mark Kounnas
Mark Kounnas (born 1969) is an Australian actor and television presenter.
Mark has had many acting roles on television and films and is probably best known for his role in Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome as Gekko.
He has also been a television presenter on the ABC children's television series Seeing Is Believing with his sister and fellow actor Melissa Kounnas.

He was the youngest cast member of Catch Us If You Can.
He featured in the TV series Butterfly Island Kings and Chances (until October 1991) and appeared as a young Donald Bradman in the mini-series Bodyline.
He had small roles in Water Rats, Heartbreak High and A Country Practice.
He also appeared in the 1982 Ginger Meggs movie as Raggsy.


Bibliography
Holmstrom, John.
The Moving Picture Boy: An International Encyclopaedia from 1895 to 1995.
Norwich, Michael Russell, 1996, p.
376.


References


External links
Mark Kounnas at IMDb

Aaron Smith (musician)
Aaron "The A-Train" Smith (born September 3, 1950) is a Nashville-based drummer and percussionist who has played as a member of multiple bands, and as a studio musician, starting in 1970.
Smith played drums on several hit Motown recordings in the 1970s, including The Temptations' "Papa Was a Rollin' Stone".
In the 1980s, he was a member of the new wave band Romeo Void and the Christian alternative rock band the 77s.


History
With a singular focus, Aaron Smith began his career playing drums in marching band during the sixth grade practicing on the cafeteria tables since there were so many kids wanting to play that instrument.
Smith has stated that his influences include James Brown, Aretha Franklin, Stax, RCA, Motown, Ringo Starr and the Beatles' appearance on the Ed Sullivan Show.
On his first recording session for the song "Push, Push", Smith was paid with "all the hamburgers he could eat".
At the age of 20, Smith played drums on The Temptations' recording of "Papa Was a Rollin' Stone" which reached No.
1 on the Billboard Hot 100.
The song also won two Grammy Awards at the 15th Annual Awards ceremony - one for Best R&B Vocal Performance by a Duo, Group Or Chorus and the other for Best R&B Instrumental Performance.
Although not formally a member of the Funk Brothers, he performed with them on several Motown albums as a part of the rhythm section.
These records include Sky's the Limit (Temptations 71), Solid Rock (Temptations 71), All Directions (Temptations 72), Face to Face with the Truth (The Undisputed Truth 72), Masterpiece (73), The Temptations in Japan (Temptations 73), Keep on Trucking (Eddie Kendricks 73), Me and Rock and Roll Are Here to Stay (David Ruffin 74).
He has also worked on Renaissance (Ray Charles 76), Prime Time (Grey And Hanks 80), A Girl In Trouble (Romeo Void 84).
Smith was also a member of the progressive rock group Vector from 1983 through 1985.
In 1984, he joined the new wave group Romeo Void.
 Although his stint in the band was relatively brief (with the band breaking up the following year), he did perform on their most commercially successful single, "A Girl in Trouble (Is a Temporary Thing)" (along with the rest of the tracks on the accompanying Instincts album) and was even interviewed and invited back to perform with the group for their Bands Reunited episode.
Also in 1984, Smith contributed to the 77s' album All Fall Down.
He later joined the group officially in 1987, taking part in their albums The 77s (1987), Sticks and Stones (1990), Eighty Eight (1991), The Seventy Sevens (also known as Pray Naked - 1992), and Drowning with Land in Sight (1994) leaving the group in 1995.
Smith has also appeared on the following recordings: Simple House (Margaret Becker,  1991), Love Life (Charlie Peacock, 1991), Listen (Cindy Morgan, 1996), The Loving Kind (Cindy Morgan, 1998), Brother's Keeper (Rich Mullins, 1995), Hope Is Born Again (Jim Brickman/Point of Grace, 1997), The Jesus Record (Rich Mullins, 1998), Prayers of a Ragamuffin (A Ragamuffin Band, 2000), A Long Way Back (Kim Richey, 2020) and many more.
In his career, Smith has done many live tours as well with artists he has recorded with: Chuck Jackson, The Undisputed Truth, The Temptations, Mirosla Vitous, Club Nouveau, Miroslav Vitous, The 77's, Michael Card, Engelbert Humperdinck, Michael W.
Smith, Charlie Peacock, Rich Mullins and Kevin Max.
An autographed pair of Smith's drumsticks, part of the Peter Lavinger collection which was on display in the Main Exhibition Level through Feb.
2002 at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, can be found next to a pair of sticks used by Ringo Starr, one of his early influences.
Smith is married and has two daughters.


Selected discography
Sky's the Limit, The Temptations, 1971 album
Solid Rock, The Temptations, 1972 album
All Directions, The Temptations, 1972 album
Boogie Down!, Eddie Kendricks, 1972 album
Masterpiece, The Temptations, 1973 album
Law of the Land, The Undisputed Truth, 1973 album
Down to Earth, The Undisputed Truth, 1974 album
Mannequin Virtue, Vector, 1983 album
Instincts, Romeo Void, 1984 album
All Fall Down, The 77s, 1984 album
The 77s, The 77s, 1987 album
Special The Temptations, 1989 album
Sticks and Stones, The 77s, 1990 album
Eighty Eight, The 77s, 1991 album
The Seventy Sevens, The 77s, 1992 album
Drowning with Land in Sight, The 77s, 1994 album
Emperors of Soul The Temptations, 1994 boxed set
Brother's Keeper, Rich Mullins, 1995 album
The Jesus Record, Rich Mullins, 1998 album
Prayers of a Ragamuffin, A Ragamuffin Band, 2000 album


References


External links

Aaron Smith discography at Discogs

Kamieńszczyzna, Silesian Voivodeship
Kamieńszczyzna [kamjɛɲʂˈt͡ʂɨzna] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Popów, within Kłobuck County, Silesian Voivodeship, in southern Poland.
It lies approximately 6 km (4 mi) south-west of Popów, 10 km (6 mi) north of Kłobuck, and 84 km (52 mi) north of the regional capital Katowice.


References

Music Wonderland
Music Wonderland is a compilation album by Mike Oldfield released in 1981 on Virgin Records.
The album has since been reissued worldwide on CD.
Another compilation released the previous year, Mike Oldfield's Wonderland,  has not been reissued since; this is considered its reissue, although it has a different track listing.


Track listing


Side one
"Arrival" – 2:48
"Portsmouth" – 2:02
"Sheba" – 3:34
"Blue Peter" – 2:08
"Tubular Bells" (extract from part one) – 8:32
"The Sailor's Hornpipe" – 1:34
"Punkadiddle" (edit with no intro) – 4:58


Side two
"Wonderful Land" – 3:39
"In Dulci Jubilo" – 2:50
"Ommadawn" (extract from part one) – 7:06
"On Horseback" – 3:25
"Guilty" (live-edit) – 3:41
"North Star / Platinum Finale" – 4:44


Charts


Certifications


References

Dayu, Zhejiang
Dayu (simplified Chinese: 大渔; traditional Chinese: 大漁; pinyin: Dàyú) is a town under the administration of Cangnan County, Zhejiang, China.
As of 2023, it administers six villages: Nanxingjie Village (南行街村), Beixingjie Village (北行街村), Yu'ao Village (渔岙村), Da'ao Village (大岙村), Xiaoyu Village (小渔村), and Da'aoxin Village (大岙心村).


References

Rape during the Armenian genocide
During the Armenian genocide, which occurred in the Ottoman Empire, led at the time by the Young Turks, the Turkish armed forces, militias, and members of the public engaged in a systematic campaign of genocidal rape against female Armenians and children of both sexes.
Before the genocide had begun, one method used to intimidate the Armenian population was sexual humiliation.
Women and young girls were not only subjected to rape, but also forced marriage, torture, forced prostitution, slavery and sexual mutilation.
Heinrich Bergfeld, the German consul to Trabzon, reported "the numerous rapes of women and girls," a crime he regarded as being part of a plan for "the virtually complete extermination of the Armenians." The systematic use of rape during the genocide was testified to by Turkish, American, Austrian, and German witnesses and officials.


Background
In the years between 1850 and 1870, the Patriarch of Armenia submitted 537 letters to the Sublime Porte asking for help to protect Armenians from the violent abuse and social and political injustice they were subjected to.
He requested the people be protected from "brigandage, murder, abduction and rape of women and children, confiscatory taxes, and fraud and extortion by local officials."
Within the legal system, the Armenian communities had their own prisons and court systems, and were able to hold civil cases for issues between Christians and Muslims.
Within the Islamic judicial system, however, the Armenians had no recourse.
A Muslim was allowed to request a hearing before a religious court, in which testimony from non-Muslims would be disallowed or given little value.
All a Muslim needed to do to get a case settled was swear on the Qur'an.
Because of this, the Armenians, as well as other dhimmis, had little hope within the judicial system.
 According to Peter Balakian, "a well-armed Kurd or Turk could not only steal his [Armenian] host's possessions but could rape or kidnap the women and girls of the household with impunity." "The amount of theft and extortion, as well as rape and abduction of Armenian women, that was allowed under this Ottoman legal system, placed the Armenians in perpetual jeopardy."
In 1895, Frederick Davis Greene, published The Armenian Crisis in Turkey: The Massacre of 1894, Its Antecedents and Significance.
The book made note of the fact that men were murdered out of hand, while the women and children suffered appalling sexual attacks.
 In one incident he described,

A lot of women, variously estimated from 60 to 160 in number, were shut up in a church, and the soldiers were "let loose" among them.
Many were outraged to death, and the remainder dispatched with sword and bayonet.
Children were placed in a row, one behind another, and a bullet fired down the line, apparently to see how many could be dispatched with one bullet.
Infants and small children were piled one on the other and their heads struck off.
The genocide of 1915 was planned well in advance.
A document obtained by Commander C.
H.
Heathcote Smith of the British Naval Volunteer Service, which was dubbed "The Ten Commandments", gave a detailed account of how the genocide was to be carried out"

Profiting by Arts: 3 and 4 of Comité Union and Progres, close all Armenian Societies, and arrest all who worked against Government at any time among them and send them into the provinces such as Bagdad or Mosul, and wipe them out either on the road or there.
Collect arms.
Excite Moslem opinion by suitable and special means, in places as Van, Erzeroum, Adana, where as a point of fact the Armenians have already won the hatred of the Moslems, provoke organised massacres as the Russians did at Baku.
Leave all executive to the people in the provinces such as Erzeroum, Van, Mumuret ul Aziz, and Bitlis, and use Military disciplinary forces (i.e.
Gendarmerie) ostensibly to stop massacres, while on the contrary in places as Adana, Sivas, Broussa, Ismidt and Smyrna actively help the Moslems with military force.
Apply measures to exterminate all males under 50, priests and teachers, leave girls and children to be Islamized.
Carry away the families of all who succeed in escaping and apply measures to cut them off from all connection with their native place.
On the ground that Armenian officials may be spies, expel and drive them out absolutely from every Government department or post.
Kill off in an appropriate manner all Armenians in the Army - this to be left to the military to do.
All action to begin everywhere simultaneously, and thus leave no time for preparation of defensive measures.
Pay attention to the strictly confidential nature of these instructions, which may not go beyond two or three persons.
The genocide began following the outbreak of World War I.
Armenians serving in the Turkish armed forces were removed and killed.
The Armenian civilian population were sent on forced marches and denied food and water.
In a strategy similar to the genocidal tactics used by the German Empire in German South-West Africa, the Armenians were forced into the desert.
While marching, the women, the young girls and the boys were systematically raped, mutilated and tortured.
Hundreds of thousands died on these forced marches.


Rape as genocide

During the Armenian genocide the rape of young girls was well documented; they would be assaulted in their homes before forced relocation, or on the forced marches into the Syrian desert.
An eyewitness testified, "It was a very common thing for them to rape our girls in our presence.
Very often they violated eight or ten year old girls, and as a consequence many would be unable to walk, and were shot." Another testified that every girl in her village aged over twelve, and some who were younger, had been raped.
Women were gang raped and often committed suicide afterwards.
Once the men had been separated from the women, the women were systematically raped and then killed, along with any children.
According to eyewitness accounts, the practice of rape was "more or less universal".
Armenians "were often killed in festivals of cruelty which involved rape and other forms of torture." The women were raped on a daily basis, and many were forced to work as prostitutes.
Many were killed by bayoneting, or died from exposure or from prolonged sexual abuse.
In 2008, A.
Dirk Moses described genocide as a "total social practice." Within this context, rape can be viewed as an integral part of genocide.
Genocides usually involve attacking the familial roles of the victims, which are the ways they contribute to the reproduction of the targeted group as perceived by the perpetrators.
Commonalities across all genocides are the murder of infants in front of parents, forced rape of women by family members, and the violation and mutilation of the reproductive systems.

The Armenian genocide is a prime example of these behaviors.
The attackers follow a pattern of family based destruction.
In attacks on villages men were killed, and the surviving population were raped, forcibly displaced or killed.
Another purpose of the rapes was eliticide, the destruction of a group's leadership, which was then used to create confusion.
This gave a public demonstration of the mastery the attackers had over the Armenian populace, and caused "total suffering" on both sexes, as they bore witness to sexual assault and the torture of those they loved.


Instances and accounts

According to Taner Akçam, forced prostitution, rape and sexual abuse were widespread, and military commanders told their men to "Do to them whatever you wish".
Members of the German armed forces in Der Zor helped to open a brothel.
Throughout the genocide the men were given free licence to do as they pleased with Armenian women.
Armenian women and children were displayed naked in auctions in Damascus, where they were sold as sex slaves.
The trafficking of Armenian women as sex slaves was an important source of income for accompanying soldiers.
In Arab areas, enslaved Armenian women were sold at low prices.
The German consul at Mosul reported that the maximum price for an Armenian woman was "5 piastres" (about 20 Pence Sterling at the time).
Karen Jeppe, who was working for the League of Nations in Aleppo and was attempting to free the tens of thousands of women and children who had been abducted, said in 1926 that out of the thousands of women she had spoken to, only one had not been sexually abused.
Rössler, the German consul in Aleppo during the genocide, heard from an "objective" Armenian that around a quarter of young women, whose appearance was "more or less pleasing", were regularly raped by the gendarmes, and that "even more beautiful ones" were violated by 10-15 men.
This resulted in girls and women being left behind dying, naked.
Aurora (Arshaluys) Mardiganian, who emigrated to the United States after escaping through Europe, brought the story of mass rapes during the Armenian genocide to public attention through her 1918 memoir Ravished Armenia, which served as the basis for the 1919 silent film, Auction of Souls.
The Aurora Prize for Awakening Humanity is named in her honor.


War crimes trials

Following the end of World War I, the British exerted pressure on the Sultan to bring to trial the leadership of the Committee of Union and Progress (CUP) for crimes against humanity.
By April 1919 over 100 Turkish officials had been arrested.
Testimony given by Nuri, the police chief of Trabzon, claimed that he had been given young girls, as a gift from the governor-general to the CUP central committee.
A merchant by name of Mehmed Ali testified that not only were children being killed at the Red Crescent Hospital, but that young girls were also being raped and that the governor-general held there fifteen girls for his sexual gratification.
Hasan Maruf, a military officer, testified to the British that "Government officials at Trebizond picked out some of the prettiest Armenian women of the best families.
After committing the worst outrages on them, they had them killed."
The court found the lieutenant governor Mehmed Kemal Bey, of the district of Yozgat, guilty of murder and forced relocation; he was sentenced to death by hanging.
Major Tevfik Bey, a commander of police was also found guilty and sentenced 15 years in prison with hard labour.


See also
Vorpahavak
Slavery in Iraq
Slavery in Saudi Arabia
Slavery in Syria


Footnotes


References


Bibliography

No Changin' Us
No Changin' Us is the fourteenth album and eighth studio album by Christian group Point of Grace.
It was released on March 2, 2010.


Background
It is their first full-length recording since their 2007 release, How You Live.
It is also their first full-length release since the June 2008 departure of Heather Payne reduced the group to a trio.
The album was produced by Nathan Chapman, who has achieved success due to his work with country singer Taylor Swift.
The album features a more country-oriented sound, due to the group's growing acceptance within the country music market.
The album's lead single, "Come to Jesus", was released on February 2, 2010.
The track "The Greatest Show On Earth" was written by the group along with Cindy Morgan and Julie Adkison.
The track "A Good Place to Turn Around" was originally recorded by country singer Kayla King.


Awards
The album won a Dove Award for Country Album of the Year at the 42nd GMA Dove Awards.
The song "There Is Nothing Greater Than Grace" also won for Country Recorded Song of the Year.


Track listing


Personnel
Point of Grace

Shelley Breen – vocals
Leigh Capillino – vocals
Denise Jones – vocals
Musicians

Tony Harrell – keyboards (1-4, 6-11)
Kenny Greenberg – electric guitar (1, 3-10)
B.
James Lowery – acoustic guitar (1, 3-10)
Bryan Sutton – acoustic guitar (1, 3, 5, 10), mandolin (3, 8, 10), banjo (8)
Nathan Chapman – backing vocals (3), acoustic guitar (5, 11), keyboards (5), bass (5), electric guitar (6, 8, 11), percussion (6, 8), mandolin (11), tambourine (11)
Stephanie Chapman – acoustic guitar (5)
Mike Johnson – steel guitar (1, 3, 8, 10), dobro (5, 6)
Dan Dugmore – steel guitar (4, 7, 9), percussion (7)
Ilya Toshinsky – banjo (6), mandolin (7)
Glenn Worf – bass (1, 3, 4, 6-10)
Shannon Forrest – drums (1, 3, 5, 10)
Nick Buda – drums (4, 6-9, 11)
Eric Darken – percussion (1, 3, 4, 9, 10)
Rob Hajacos – fiddle (1, 3-10)
Chris Carmichael – strings (3, 4, 7, 11)


Production
A&R – Josh Bailey and Jamie Kiner
Producer – Nathan Chapman
Assistant Producer on Tracks 4, 7, 9 & 11 – Emily Mueller
Recorded by Derek Bason (Tracks 1-3, 5 & 10); Chad Carlson (Tracks 4, 7, 9 & 11); Clark Schleicher (6 & 8).
Assistant Recording – Todd Tidwell (Tracks 1-3, 5, 6, 8, 10 & 11); Nathan Yarborough (Tracks 4, 7 & 9); Shawn Dougherty (Tracks 6 & 8).
Additional Recording on Track 5 – Nathan Chapman
Additional Engineer on Track 5 – Brian David Willis
Recorded at Starstruck Studios, Pain In The Art Studios, Jane's Place, Blackbird Studios, The Ice Box and I.T.
Studios (Nashville, TN); Stonehurst Studios (Bowling Green, KY).
Mastered by Jim DeMain at Yes Master Studio (Nashville, Tennessee).
A&R Coordinator – Kirsten Wines
Creative Director – Katherine Petillo
Art Direction and Design – Don Bailey
Photography – Kristin Barlowe
Stylist – Amber Lehman
Hair Stylist – Debbie Dover
Make-up – Sheila Davis Curti


Chart performance


Singles
"Come To Jesus" #7
"There Is Nothing Greater Than Grace" #12
"Love And Laundry" #15


References

Tom Peyer
Tom Peyer (born February 23, 1954) is an American comic book creator and editor.
He is known for his 1999 revisioning of Golden Age super-hero Hourman, as well as his work on the Legion of Super-Heroes in the 1990s.
An editor at DC Comics/Vertigo from 1987 to 1993, he served as assistant editor on Neil Gaiman's Sandman.
Peyer has also worked for Marvel Comics, Wildstorm, and Bongo Comics.
With John Layman, he wrote the 2007–2009 Tek Jansen comic book, based on the Stephen Colbert character.


Biography
Peyer started drawing political cartoons and illustrations for various student underground newspapers in his hometown of Syracuse, New York, while in high school.
His professional career began as a newspaper cartoonist for The Syracuse New Times, an alternative weekly newspaper in Syracuse, New York.
In this role, he came to the attention of Roger Stern, a Syracuse resident.
Peyer was an editor at DC Comics/Vertigo during the same time as Mark Waid, and the two have been frequent collaborators.
Another long-time collaborator is writer Hart Seely, with whom Peyer created a collection of found poetry based on the calls of baseball icon Phil Rizzuto.


Selected bibliography


As writer


DC Comics
Titles published by DC Comics and its various imprints include:

Action Comics, #723, 757
Adventure Comics, 80-Page Giant (1998)
Adventures of Superman Annual #8 (1996), #536, 570
"All-Star Comics 80-Page Giant" (1999)
Atom Special (1993) #1 and 2
The Authority (1999)#23–26 ("Transfer of Power")
Batman: Gotham Knights (2000) #15 ("Far from the Tree")
Batman: Legends of the Dark Knight #169–171 ("Irresistible", Parts One, Two, and Three)
Big Book of...
#6 ("Big Book of Little Criminals") and 7 ("Big Book of Hoaxes")
Cruel and Unusual (with co-author Jamie Delano, pencils by John McCrea and inks by Andrew Chiu, Vertigo, 4-issue mini-series, 1999)
DC 2000 (2000), #1 and 2
Doctor Fate (1988), #35 and 36
Elseworlds 80 Page Giant (1999), #1
Flash & Green Lantern: The Brave and the Bold (1999), #1–6
The Flash 80-Page Giant (1998), #2
The Flash Secret Files (1997), #2
The Flash (1987) Annual 8, #238–243
Golden Age Secret Files (2001), #1
Hourman #1–25
Impulse (1995), Annual 02, #19 and 28
JLA 80-Page Giant (1998), #1 and 2
JLA in Crisis Secret Files and Origins (1998), #1
JLA Secret Files and Origins (1997), 33
JLA: Tomorrow Woman (1998), #1
Justice Leagues Part I: Twilight's Last Gleaming
Justice Leagues Part VI: Dawn's Early Light
The Justice Society Returns
L.E.G.I.O.N.
(1989), Annual 05, #61–70
Legends of the DC Universe 80-Page Giant (1998), #2
Legends of the Legion (1998), #1–4
Legion of Super-Heroes (1989), Annual 06 and 07, #67–108, 110–121, #1000000
Legion of Super-Heroes: The Beginning of Tomorrow (1999)
Legion: Secret Files (1998), #1 and 2
Legionnaires (1993), #19–34, 40, 44, 47, 54, 75, 1000000
The Making of Hourman (1998), #1
New Gods (vol.
4) #1–5 (with co-author Rachel Pollack, and pencils by Luke Ross, DC Comics, 1995–1996)
Power of the Atom (1988), #14–18
R.E.B.E.L.S.
'94 (1994), #0–2
R.E.B.E.L.S.
'95 (1995), #3–14
R.E.B.E.L.S.
'96 (1996), #15–17
Secret Origins 80-Page Giant (1998), #1
Secret Origins of Super Villains (1999), #1
Showcase '96 (1996), #11 and 12
Silver Age: Doom Patrol (2000), #1
Superboy (1990), #13, 14
Supergirl (1996), Annual 02
Superman (1987), #31, 114
Superman & Batman Magazine (1993), #3
Superman Plus (1997), #1
Superman: The Man of Steel (1991), #92
Team Titans (1992), #11 and 12
The Titans (1999), #42–50
V2K: Totems (with Richard Case, Duncan Fegredo and Dean Ormston, Vertigo, 2000)
WildStorm Winter Special (2005)


Marvel Comics
Titles published by Marvel include:

Amazing Spider-Man Digital (2009) #13–15
Amazing Spider-Man Family (2008), #8
The Amazing Spider-Man #623, 624, 628
Spider-Man: The Gauntlet, vol.
03
Doom 2099 (1993), #41
House of M (2005)
House of M: Spider-Man, Fantastic Four & X-Men (2009)
Magnetic Men Featuring Magneto (1997), #1
Marvel Apes (2008), #1 and 2
Marvel Apes: Amazing Spider-Monkey Special (2009), #1
Marvel Apes: Grunt Line Special (2009), #1
Marvel Apes: Speedball Special (2009), #1
Marvel Apes: The Evolution Starts Here (2009)
Marvel Team-Up (1997), #1–6, 8–11
Marvel Valentine Special (1997), #1
The Pulse: House of M Special (2005), #1
The Punisher (2001), #9–12
Quicksilver (1997), #1–6
Return to the Amalgam Age of Comics (1997)
Volume 2 – "The Marvel Comics Collection"
Spider-Man Team-Up (1995), #1
Spider-Man: House of M (2005), #1–5
Web of Spider-Man (2009), #2
Wha...Huh?
(2005), #1
X-Nation 2099 (1996), #1–3


Bongo Comics
Titles published by Bongo include:

Bongo Comics Free-For-All (2006)
Bongo Comics Presents Simpsons Super Spectacular (2006), #4
Simpsons Comics (1993), #125
Simpsons Comics Presents Bart Simpson (2000), #21–23, 25, 26, 28–30, 34, 42
Simpsons Comics Presents Bart Simpson vol.
06, "Big Beastly Book of Bart Simpson"


Other publishers
Titles published by various American publishers include:

Cthulhu Tales (2008), #1
Dragonfly & Dragonflyman (2019), #1–5
Go Boy 7: Human Action Machine (2003), #1–4
Magnus Robot Fighter (1997), #1–18
Noble Causes: Extended Family (2003), #2
Rocket Comics: Ignite (2003), #1
Smash Comics (1999), #1
Solar, Man of the Atom: Hell on Earth (1998), #2
Stephen Colbert's Tek Jansen (2007), #1–5
The Wrong Earth (2018), #1–6
ZERO (1974), #2
Zombie Tales: The Series (2008), #9


Books
Rizzuto, Phil (2008).
Tom Peyer; Hart Seely (eds.).
O Holy Cow!: The Selected Verse of Phil Rizzuto.
Harper Paperbacks.
ISBN 978-0-06-156713-1.
Peyer, Tom (1988).
Ronald Reagan's Contradictionary of the American Language.
Quinlan Press.
ISBN 978-1-55770-056-8.
Peyer, Tom (1982).
Sideshow: Cartoons from the Syracuse New Times.
Times-Advocate of New York, Inc.
ASIN B00073EYZ2 (UK).


As editor
Animal Man (1988), Annual 1, #35–63.
Black Orchid (1988), Annual 1, #1–4
Constantine: The Hellblazer Collection (2005)
Doom Force Special (1992), #1 ("Judgment Day")
Doom Patrol (1987), Annual 02, #44–71
Hellblazer (1988), #29–41
Kid Eternity (1993), #1–8
The Sandman (1989), #16–25
Shade, the Changing Man (1990), #1–12
Swamp Thing, #96–100
Vertigo Jam (1993), #1
Vertigo Visions: The Geek, #1
Vertigo Visions: Phantom Stranger, #1
War of the Gods (1991), #2–4
Who's Who in the DC Universe, #9, 10, 15
Wonder Woman (1987), #43–62


References


External links
Tom Peyer's Blog


Interviews

Interview with Tom Peyer, "Tek Jansen" comic author, No Fact Zone, February 16, 2007
Interview: Tom Peyer on 'The Flash' and 'Tek Jansen', March 8, 2008
Tom Peyer: Time Is On His Side, Comics Bulletin
Interview with Tom Peyer, comics author (audio), War Rocket Ajax, October 18, 2009

Immanent critique
Immanent critique is a method of analyzing culture that identifies contradictions in society's rules and systems.
Most importantly, it juxtaposes the ideals articulated by society against the inadequate realization of those ideals in society's institutions.
As a method for the critique of ideology, immanent critique analyzes cultural forms in philosophy, the social sciences and humanities.
Immanent critique pays close attention to the logic and meanings of the ideas expressed in the cultural text.
It further aims to contextualize not only the specific cultural object of its investigation, but also the broader ideological basis of that text: It aims to show that the ideology is a product of a historical process and does not reflect timeless truths.
Immanent critique has its roots in the dialectic of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel and the criticisms of both Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and  Karl Marx.
Today it is strongly associated with the critical theorists such as Theodor Adorno as well as literary theorists such as Fredric Jameson who, in his foundational work The Political Unconscious, explored the idea of an immanent analysis of texts to argue the primacy of political interpretation.
Roy Bhaskar has advocated it as one of the key methodological elements of critical realism.
Adorno contrasted immanent critique with "transcendent" critique, which typically reduces a set of ideas to their political uses or to the class interests they express.
Transcendent critique, unlike immanent critique, adopts an external perspective and focuses on the historical genesis of ideas, while negating the values expressed in the cultural text.

The purpose of immanent critique, instead, is the detection of societal contradictions that suggest possibilities for emancipatory social change.
It considers the role of ideas in shaping society.
An immanent critique of a cultural text discusses the ideal principles (overt or implicit) proposed by the text.
It highlights the gaps between what something stands for and what is actually being done in society.
Immanent critique tries to find contradictions in the internal logic of the cultural text and indirectly provide alternatives, without constructing an entirely new theory.
It has the power to appeal to people's shared ideals while highlighting how far society has to go before those ideals are realized.
Quoting Marx, Robert J.
Antonio writes:

"'Setting out from idealism ...
I hit upon seeking the Idea in the real itself.
If formerly the gods had dwelt above the world, they had now become its center.' Marx concluded that immanent principles were necessary weapons in the struggle for progressive social change, because they provide a basis for critique within historical reality.
Later, this immanent grounding became the axis of his emancipatory critique of capitalism."
According to David L.
Harvey:

"Critical theory at its most abstract and general level ...
begins as a formal 'negativity.' As a dissenting motif, it selects some tradition, ideological premise, or institutionalized orthodoxy for analysis.
As immanent critique, it then 'enters its object,' so to speak, 'boring from within.' Provisionally accepting the methodological presuppositions, substantive premises, and truth-claims of orthodoxy as its own, immanent critique tests the postulates of orthodoxy by the latter's own standards of proof and accuracy.
Upon 'entering' the theory, orthodoxy's premises and assertions are registered and certain strategic contradictions located.
These contradictions are then developed according to their own logic, and at some point in this process of internal expansion, the one-sided proclamations of orthodoxy collapse as material instances and their contradictions are allowed to develop 'naturally.'"


See also
Frankfurt School
Reflective disclosure
Quietism
"World disclosing" arguments


References


External links
Immanent critique from a theological perspective
Titus Stahl (3 June 2014).
"What is Immanent Critique?".
SSRN 2357957.
Procyshyn, Alexei (2022-01-02).
"The Conditions of Immanent Critique".
Critical Horizons.
23 (1): 22–43.
doi:10.1080/14409917.2019.1616485.
ISSN 1440-9917.
S2CID 197707814.

Manche storage centre
The Centre de stockage de la Manche (CSM)(Manche storage centre) is the oldest French radioactive waste storage centre.
It is located in the commune of La Hague, bordering on the La Hague site.
The CSM was created in 1969 and then received nuclear waste until it reached saturation in 1994.
According to Agence nationale pour la gestion des déchets radioactifs (ANDRA)'s inventory, the waste stored includes approximately 1,469,265 packages, corresponding to 527,225 m³, mainly from nuclear power generation (nuclear power plants and facilities corresponding to nuclear fuel cycle front end and back end).
Hurd's Deep, used in the 1950s and 1960s for the dumping of low- and intermediate-level radioactive wastes, is located in the vicinity.


History
In 1967, the Atomic Energy Commission (CEA) created Infratome, a private company which was a subsidiary of the fr:Mines de potasse d'Alsace.
After considering the Biville dunes, owned by the army, the decision was made to build the CSM to the east of the La Hague reprocessing plant, in a wetland area called the "Haut Marais".
Today, a wetland would never be chosen to house a storage centre.
The local elected officials did not want the CSM to be managed by a private operator.
As a consequence, the  CEA  controlled the storage facilities until 1991, when the Agence nationale pour la gestion des déchets radioactifs (ANDRA: National Agency for Radioactive Waste Management), which had been an entity of the CEA since 1979, took over the centre as an independent public institution (created by the law of 30 December 1991).
The first waste received in 1969 was hospital waste, in particular radium used for cancer treatment.
Initially, storage consisted of burial in ordinary trenches, in the ground.
Then the safer and easier storage on the surface was adopted: Concrete blocks are poured around the casks, then covered with a plastic film and earth.
The result of storage on the surface is called a "tumulus".
In 1976, an accident occurred that caused tritium pollution of the aquifer and water on the surface.
For several years, plutonium, radium, thorium, and waste containing tritium from all of the French nuclear power plants had been stored in 6 vaults in a structure called TB2.
The leaks would be due to an overflow at the surface of the deep drainage network on the grounds of heavy rainfalls and malfunctions of the lifting pump.
In 1984, storage structures were restored (trenches in the ground and concrete-walled trenches) and packages were taken back and reconditioned, improving their containment.
In 1991, the construction of the centre's roof began.
It is intended to protect the packages from water infiltration.
In 1994, the last package was received, then the storage was closed by the ANDRA in order to prepare the transition into the monitoring phase (planned for a period of around 300 years).
The closure of the facility incorporates a waste encapsulation system (known as a cap) designed for watertightness, durability, and protection.
The watertightness is achieved by a bituminous geomembrane.
In 2003, a decree authorized the centre to enter the transition into the monitoring phase.


Remarks
In 1996, two official reports showed that the site safety studies were positive.
The government's evaluation commission also considers that the site cannot be restored to its initial state even after 300 years (in French site non banalisable), and that it is necessary to keep its memory.
According to the Sortir du nucléaire (France), the site's management would be poor:
"some defective canister sometimes directly in the ground should be reconditioned, but the project was stopped because of its cost and of the risk to workers; casks are protected from rain by a waterproof cover that is already beginning to crack; the embankments are sagging; rivers that flow from the site are subject to pollution".
In 2006, Sortir du nucléaire also claims that it contains more than 100 kg of disseminated plutonium, 200 tonnes of uranium, chemicals and heavy metals.
In 2013, a study carried out by fr:Association pour le contrôle de la radioactivité dans l'Ouest, based in Caen, and financed by the Manche departmental council and the Autorité de sûreté nucléaire showed that data from ANDRA were underestimated.
According to this association, actinides are found in the bed of fr:Ruisseau de Sainte-Hélène


References

Carlos Luis de Urrutia
Carlos Luis de Urrutia (1750-1825) was a Spanish military commander and colonial administrator.
He played an important part in suppressing the Mexican insurrection of Miguel Hidalgo, and was rewarded with the appointment of Governor of Santo Domingo (1813-1818) and then supreme military commander of Guatemala (1818-1821).
When the latter declared independence he fled to Cuba.


References
Grijalbo - Diccionario Enciclopedico - ISBN 84-253-2675-3

Inner model theory
In set theory, inner model theory is the study of certain models of ZFC or some fragment or strengthening thereof.
Ordinarily these models are transitive subsets or subclasses of the von Neumann universe V, or sometimes of a generic extension of V.
Inner model theory studies the relationships of these models to determinacy, large cardinals, and descriptive set theory.
Despite the name, it is considered more a branch of set theory than of model theory.


Examples
The class of all sets is an inner model containing all other inner models.
The first non-trivial example of an inner model was the constructible universe L developed by Kurt Gödel.
Every model M of ZF has an inner model LM satisfying the axiom of constructibility, and this will be the smallest inner model of M containing all the ordinals of M.
 Regardless of the properties of the original model, LM will satisfy the generalized continuum hypothesis and combinatorial axioms such as the diamond principle ◊.
HOD, the class of sets that are hereditarily ordinal definable, form an inner model, which satisfies ZFC.
The sets that are hereditarily definable over a countable sequence of ordinals form an inner model, used in Solovay's theorem.
L(R), the smallest inner model containing all real numbers and all ordinals.
L[U], the class constructed relative to a normal, non-principal, 
  
    
      
        κ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \kappa }
  
-complete ultrafilter U over an ordinal 
  
    
      
        κ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \kappa }
  
 (see zero dagger).


Consistency results
One important use of inner models is the proof of consistency results.
If it can be shown that every model of an axiom A has an inner model satisfying axiom B, then if A is consistent, B must also be consistent.
This analysis is most useful when A is an axiom independent of ZFC, for example a large cardinal axiom; it is one of the tools used to rank axioms by consistency strength.



References
Jech, Thomas (2003), Set Theory, Springer Monographs in Mathematics, Berlin, New York: Springer-Verlag
Kanamori, Akihiro (2003), The Higher Infinite : Large Cardinals in Set Theory from Their Beginnings (2nd ed.), Berlin, New York: Springer-Verlag, ISBN 978-3-540-00384-7


See also
Core model
Inner model

Vanessa Morgan
Vanessa Morgan Mziray (born March 23, 1992) is a Canadian actress.
She is known for her roles as Beatrix "Bird" Castro in the MTV teen drama series Finding Carter, as Amanda Pierce in the Family teen comedy series The Latest Buzz, and as Sarah in the Disney Channel / Teletoon film My Babysitter's a Vampire and the television series of the same name.
From 2017 to 2023, she played Toni Topaz in the CW teen drama series Riverdale.


Early life
Morgan was born in Ottawa, Ontario.
Her mother, Catherine, is Scottish and her father, Loyar, is Tanzanian.
Morgan is the youngest of three children.
She has two older siblings: an older sister and an older brother.
Morgan began singing at the age of six.
She sang at community events and telethons, performed for Childhelp, and was a regular guest entertainer for the College of the Desert scholarship foundation.
She was spotted by a Hollywood agent in 1999 and earned a scholarship at a Hollywood acting academy.
In 1999, Morgan won the Junior Miss America pageant and won first place vocalist at the National Date Festival.
In 2000, she won first place in the African-American Vocal Competition.
In her early life, she was a member of the competitive NTA tennis program at the Ottawa Athletic Club.
Morgan graduated from Colonel By Secondary School in 2010 and studied philosophy at Queen's University.


Career


Acting
Morgan made her acting debut in the VH1 film A Diva's Christmas Carol in 2000 and another appearance in the film Frankie & Alice in 2010.
She became known in 2007 for her role as Amanda Pearce in the Family teen comedy series The Latest Buzz as well as performing the theme song for the series.
She also played Marion Hawthorne in the 2010 Disney Channel film Harriet the Spy: Blog Wars.
The following year, Morgan played Sarah in the Teletoon / Disney Channel film My Babysitter's a Vampire, as well in the television series of the same name.
Morgan also appeared in the 2011 Disney Channel film Geek Charming.
She had a recurring role in season 2 of the Disney Channel comedy series A.N.T.
Farm for four episodes.
In 2013, Morgan appeared on Degrassi: The Next Generation for two episodes.
In 2014, Morgan had a recurring role on the MTV show Finding Carter, playing Beatrix "Bird" Castro.
In 2017, she joined the main cast of the fantasy drama series The Shannara Chronicles as Lyria for the second season on Spike.
Morgan was then cast in the recurring role of Toni Topaz in the CW teen drama series Riverdale.
On May 2, 2018, it was announced that Morgan would be a series regular for the show's third season.


Other work
Morgan competed in the first season of the CTV reality competition series The Amazing Race Canada with her sister, Celina Mziray.
They finished the race in third place.


Personal life
On July 3, 2019, Morgan became engaged to professional baseball player Michael Kopech.
They were married on January 4, 2020.
On June 19, 2020, Kopech filed for divorce.
On July 24, 2020, Morgan announced she was pregnant.
As of December 2020, the divorce case was pending.
In 2021, Morgan gave birth to a son.
Morgan and Kopech officially divorced in 2021.
In 2024, Morgan gave birth to a daughter fathered by Canadian basketball player James Karnik.
Morgan announced her engagement to Karnik on December 24, 2024.


Filmography


Discography


Awards and nominations


Notes


References


External links

Vanessa Morgan at IMDb 
Vanessa Morgan on Twitter 
Cast bios for Geek Charming – Vanessa Morgan "Hannah" @ Disney Channel Medianet (October 2011 archive copy)

Price monitoring
Price monitoring is the systematic process of observing and tracking the prices of commodities or securities to ensure they do not fall below a predetermined threshold.
This activity is essential for organizations aiming to maintain stability in market prices and protect against significant fluctuations that could adversely affect economic balance.
To achieve this objective, entities employ a variety of strategies, including the establishment of price ceilings and floors, which act as upper and lower limits on prices to prevent extreme volatility.
Additionally, careful analysis of supply and demand trends is conducted to anticipate shifts in market dynamics.
Forecasting future demand also plays a crucial role in this process, enabling organizations to make informed decisions to regulate prices effectively.
Through these measures, price monitoring serves as a critical tool in sustaining market equilibrium and fostering a stable economic environment.


Definition
Price monitoring constitutes the ongoing surveillance of commodity or security prices to detect substantial shifts that could signal profitable trading opportunities.
This dynamic process is pivotal in financial and commodity markets, where price volatility is influenced by a multitude of factors including alterations in supply and demand dynamics, modifications in the intrinsic value of the security, and conclusions drawn from technical analysis.
Through vigilant price monitoring, investors and traders can capitalize on fluctuations to optimize their investment strategies.
This method is commonly used by traders as a means to identify potential opportunities for profit and to mitigate risks.
By monitoring price movements, traders can assess the likelihood and potential scale of profit.
Price monitoring involves tracking the price of a security, commodity, or financial instrument over time to notice any notable changes that may warrant further investigation.
Reasons for these changes can include dynamics in supply and demand, alterations in the intrinsic value of the security, or results from technical analysis.
Price monitoring can be conducted either manually or through automated systems.
One of the key strategies in price monitoring is the use of software-as-a-service (SaaS) tools, which offer plug-and-play technology, practical functionality for data analysis, and pricing advice.
SaaS tools are often preferred over basic price scraping tools due to their comprehensive features, though they may be more expensive.


Benefits
Price monitoring is a tool that enables companies to keep abreast of market trends and fluctuations.
It involves tracking changes in prices, allowing companies to adapt their pricing strategies accordingly.
The data gathered from price monitoring offers insights into consumer responses to price changes.
This information is vital for companies to develop effective pricing strategies, considering factors like market trends, consumer behavior, and the actions of competitors.
Price monitoring assists in understanding price elasticity, aiding companies in setting prices that optimize revenue and profit margins.
Keeping track of competitors' pricing also provides a competitive edge.
Companies can react promptly to competitors' pricing changes, making strategic decisions on whether to match, undercut, or differentiate their prices.
Price monitoring is a critical source of data that supports decision-making in various business areas, including:

pricing decisions: assisting companies in making informed adjustments to their pricing,
marketing strategies: informing marketing approaches based on observed pricing trends and competitor actions,
product development: identifying market needs and potential opportunities based on observed price changes.


References

Michael Palin's New Europe
Michael Palin's New Europe is a travel documentary presented by Michael Palin and first aired in the UK on the BBC on 16 September 2007 and in the US on the Travel Channel on 28 January 2008.
Palin visits 20 countries in Central and Eastern Europe – the programme was filmed in the wake of the 2004 enlargement of the European Union (and shortly before the 2007 enlargement), which included many of the countries visited by Palin and significantly reshaped east–west relations on the continent.
The filming was done in 2006 and early 2007 using HD (high definition) equipment.
The result was made into seven one-hour programmes for BBC One and simulcast on BBC HD.
A book, New Europe, was also written describing the trip, and illustrated with photographs by Basil Pao.


Episodes
The series consists of seven one-hour episodes:


References


External links
Michael Palin's New Europe at IMDb
Palin's Travels –- the official website
Michael Palin's New Europe at BBC Online 
Michael Palin's Interview [1]

Adolph Alexander Weinman
Adolph Alexander Weinman (December 11, 1870 – August 8, 1952) was a German-born American sculptor and architectural sculptor.


Early life and education

Adolph Alexander Weinman was born in Durmersheim, near Karlsruhe, Germany.
He immigrated to the United States in 1885 at the age of 14.
At 15, he attended evening classes at Cooper Union.
He later studied at the Art Students League of New York with sculptors Augustus Saint-Gaudens and Philip Martiny.


Career
He was an assistant to the sculptors Charles Niehaus, Olin Warner, and Daniel Chester French before opening his studio in 1904.
Although Weinman is now best remembered as a medalist, he considered himself to be an architectural sculptor.
His steadiest income was derived from the sale of small bronze reproductions of his larger works, such as Descending Night, originally commissioned for the Panama–Pacific International Exposition, San Francisco, 1915.
Weinman was a member of the National Sculpture Society and served as its president from 1927 to 1930.
His work was also part of the sculpture event in the art competition at the 1928 Summer Olympics.
He served on the U.S.
Commission of Fine Arts from 1929 to 1933.
 He was also a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, the National Institute of Arts and Letters, the National Academy of Design, and the New York City Art Commission, among other organizations.


Death
Weinman died in Port Chester, New York, on August 8, 1952.
Following a Mass at Manhattan's St.
Patrick's Cathedral, he was buried at Calvary Cemetery in Queens.
Weinman's papers are at the Smithsonian Archives of American Art.
His son Robert Weinman was also a sculptor, and his son Howard Weinman designed the Long Island Tercentenary half dollar commemorative coin.


Works

Despite his objections, Weinman is still best remembered as the designer of the Walking Liberty Half Dollar, a design now used for the obverse of the American Silver Eagle one-ounce bullion coin, and the "Mercury" dime along with various medals for the Armed Services of the United States.
Among these are the identical reverses of the Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal, the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal, and the American Campaign Medal.
Weinman was one of many sculptors and artists who employed Audrey Munson as a model.
Weinman's work as an architectural sculptor can be found on the Wisconsin, Missouri, and Louisiana state capitols.
He became the sculptor of choice for the  architecture firm McKim, Mead, and White and designed sculpture for their Manhattan Municipal Building, Madison Square Presbyterian Church (completed 1906 and demolished 1919), Prison Ship Martyrs' Monument, and Pennsylvania Railroad Station (completed 1910 and demolished 1963), all in New York City.
A photograph of one of his angels, Day, in a landfill in New Jersey is one of the saddest reminders of the destruction of Penn Station in 1963, but two of his eagles were retained as trophies outside the entrance to the new subterranean Penn Station.
 Elsewhere he created the dramatic frieze on the Elks National Veterans Memorial in Chicago and executed sculpture for the Post Office Department Building, the Jefferson Memorial, and the interior of the U.S.
Supreme Court, all in Washington, D.C.
Weinman's non-architectural works include the Macomb and the Maybury monuments in Detroit.
Another example of his non-architectural work is his Abraham Lincoln Statue (Kentucky) located in the center of Hodgenville, Kentucky.
Weinman collaborated with Polish American sculptor Joseph Kiselewski to create a sculpture on the Bronx County Court House in New York City in the early 1930s.
Weinman was one of 250 sculptors who exhibited at the 3rd Sculpture International held at the Philadelphia Museum of Art in the summer of 1949.
Weinman's works are mostly executed in a lyrical neoclassical style.
His figures typically wear classical drapery, but there is a fluidity found in his work that is a harbinger of the Art Deco style that was to follow him.
His bronze statuette The Nude Golfer epitomizes this style.
This work evokes classical sculpture in its  attention to anatomy and movement and the nude status of the athlete while the subject, a modern golfer, provides a modern twist.
Weinman also taught; among his pupils was Eleanor Mary Mellon.


Selected works


Sculpture
General Alexander Macomb (1906–1908), Detroit, Michigan.
Union Soldiers and Sailors Monument (1909), Wyman Park, Baltimore, Maryland.
Abraham Lincoln (1909), Hodgenville, Kentucky.
A replica of this is at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.
Alexander Johnston Cassatt, (1910), Pennsylvania Station, New York City.
Abraham Lincoln (1911), Kentucky State Capitol, Frankfort, Kentucky.
William Cotter Maybury Memorial (1912), Grand Circus Park, Detroit, Michigan.
Rising Sun (1914–15), Panama–Pacific International Exposition, San Francisco, California.
Descending Night (1914–15) (model, Audrey Munson), Panama–Pacific International Exposition, San Francisco, California.
Samuel Rea (1926), Pennsylvania Station, New York City.
Fountain of the Centaurs (ca.
1926), Missouri State Capitol, Jefferson City, Missouri.
Pair of Lions (1929–30), Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore, Maryland.
Dewitt Clinton (1941) and Alexander Hamilton (1941), Museum of the City of New York, New York City.
Riders of the Dawn (ca.
1942), Brookgreen Gardens, Murrell's Inlet, South Carolina.


Architectural sculpture
Architectural sculpture (1903–04), Pennsylvania Station, McKim, Mead and White, architects, (demolished 1964).
Salvaged pieces of statuary survive in multiple locations.
Architectural sculpture (1904–1906), Madison Square Presbyterian Church, New York City, McKim, Mead and White, architects, (demolished 1919).
Architectural sculpture (1908), Prison Ship Martyrs' Monument, Fort Greene Park, Brooklyn, New York City, McKim, Mead and White, architects.
Masonic Sphinxes: Power and Wisdom (1911–1915), House of the Temple, Washington, D.C., John Russell Pope, architect.
Architectural sculpture (1913–1915), Manhattan Municipal Building, New York City, McKim, Mead and White, architects.
Bronze doors (1921–1923), American Academy of Arts and Letters administration building, West 155th Street, Audubon Terrace, Manhattan, New York City.
Architectural sculpture (1924–1926), Elks National Veterans Memorial, Chicago, Illinois.
Architectural sculpture: South Pediment (ca.
1926), Missouri State Capitol, Jefferson City, Missouri.
Architectural sculpture: Destiny Pediment (1935), National Archives Building, Washington, D.C.
Drafting the Declaration of Independence (1939–1943), pedimental sculpture honoring the Committee of Five on the Jefferson Memorial, Washington, D.C.


U.S.
coins and medals
1904 World Fair, Louisiana Purchase Exposition award Medals The obverse of the medal depicts two female figures above the date MCMIV (1904).
The tall taller figure is Columbia, with her arms spread wide holding the United States flag.
The youthful maiden at her side represents the Louisiana Purchase Territory.
Emblematic of her reception into the union, the maiden is divesting herself of the cloak of France, the material decorated with bees, the emblem of Napoleon.
In the background is the rising sun, marking the dawn of a new era of progress to the nation.
Encircling the two figures are the words “Universal Exposition – Saint Louis – United States of America.”
 The reverse shows an architectural tablet inscribed with “Gold Medal” and “Louisiana Purchase Exposition”.
Below the tablet are two dolphins symbolizing the nations’ eastern and western boundaries, the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.
Above the tablet is a large eagle with its wings spread.
The inscription reads “Gold Medal (Silver and Bronze Medals were also given out) Louisiana Purchase Exposition 1904”.
In addition to the medal a diploma of award was also given to the recipient.
The medal weights approximately 3.5 ounces.

Mercury dime (1916–1945).
More than two billion Mercury dimes were minted before it was replaced by the Roosevelt dime in 1946.
 The design is now used as the obverse of the American Palladium Eagle coin, which has been produced since 2017.
Walking Liberty half dollar (1916–1947).
Replaced by the Franklin half dollar (1948).
Weinman's carving is now used as the obverse of the American Silver Eagle coin, which has been produced since 1986.
J.
Sanford Saltus Medal Award – awarded by the American Numismatic Society.
Weinman was the second recipient of this medal.


References
Notes

Bibliography

Kvaran and Lockley, A Guide to the Architectural Sculpture of America, unpublished manuscript


External links

Works by or about Adolph Alexander Weinman at the Internet Archive
Adolph A.
Weinman Papers at the Smithsonian Archives of American Art
Artist page at the Metropolitan Museum of Art
Adolph Weinman - Master Engraver
A.A.
Weinman (1870-1952) at the R.
W.
Norton Art Gallery
Adolph Alexander Weinman at Find a Grave

Mohamed Ali Ghariani
Mohamed Ali Ghariani (Arabic: محمد علي الغرياني; born 11 June 1983) is a Tunisian former professional footballer who played as a striker.


References


External links
Mohamed Ali Ghariani at National-Football-Teams.com

WNKC
WNKC (104.9 FM) is a radio station licensed to Gloucester, Massachusetts, United States.
The station is owned by the Educational Media Foundation (EMF) and carries contemporary Christian music through its K-Love network.
WNKC operates as the K-Love station for the North Shore and Merrimack Valley regions of Greater Boston, serving portions of the metro area not covered by K-Love's primary Boston-area station, WKVB (107.3 FM).


History


WVCA-FM
The station was founded by Simon Geller, a native of Lowell, Massachusetts.
After working in radio in New Jersey, Geller moved to Gloucester in 1964 because, he told a reporter, it was the biggest town on the East Coast without a radio station.
He first applied for a license for an AM station on 1410 kHz; the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) would instead award that frequency to another proposed station in Brockton.
They suggested Geller apply for an FM station at 104.9 MHz instead.
This station became WVCA-FM: "The Voice of Cape Ann", a phrase which became attached to Geller himself.
Geller operated the station out of his apartment, running it primarily on donations from among his estimated 43,000 listeners within the 35-mile radius reached by the station.
When it was time to take a lunch break or run an errand, the unpredictable Geller might simply shut the station down.
His eccentric on-air behavior earned Geller a loyal following of listeners wondering what he might do or say next.
One of the early programming choices was top 40, followed by classical music later in the evening.
Tom Todisco became one of the earliest WVCA-FM DJs, and his show, "Tommy T's Teen Scene" became popular and made a dent in the ratings at the expense of the Boston stations.
Tom later became famous for his award-winning direction of WSBK-TV's Boston Red Sox coverage for many years.
Geller owned the station for over 20 years before selling it in 1988 and moving to Las Vegas.
During the time he owned WVCA-FM, Grandbanke Communications filed a petition to deny license renewals because, they argued, he had not fulfilled the station's public service requirements.
Grandbanke's application to take over the frequency was at first successful but upon appeal it was ultimately denied in 1985.
Geller's argument was that the value of the frequency had gone up considerably, to at least $800,000, due to its proximity to Boston.


WBOQ
After the station's sale to new owner Douglas Tanger in 1988 it maintained its classical programming as WBOQ ("W-Bach"), adding on-air hosts well-versed in the form, such as professional flutist Heather Kent and program director Steve Murphy, a singer and choral conductor.
In the late 1990s, WBOQ transitioned to a mix of Broadway and movie music, and later to a jazz standards format.
At the end of 2003 the station flipped to an oldies format under new owner Todd Tanger and program director Charlie Curtis, a veteran air personality at such oldies outlets as WCBS-FM in New York and WOMC in Detroit.
It also adopted the new name "North Shore 104.9", to reflect the station's dedication to its North Shore location.
With the change the station's listening audience more than quadrupled in size, and the Curtis-hosted "Morning Show" boasted the largest listening audience on the North Shore after all-news WBZ.
During this period, WBOQ maintained studios on Route 1A in North Beverly.
From 2006 until 2016, it carried Boston Red Sox baseball as part of the Red Sox Radio Network.

The station began broadcasting from a new transmitter site in Topsfield on January 10, 2013, with a 6,000–watt signal which increased coverage to other areas such as the Merrimack Valley and the Route 1 corridor; it then began identifying as "WBOQ Gloucester-Boston".
On December 26, 2017, WBOQ dropped oldies for adult contemporary.


WNKC
The adult contemporary format ended on July 1, 2022, when the Educational Media Foundation (EMF) began programming WBOQ under a local marketing agreement with its K-Love network; on July 13, EMF filed to purchase the station for $1.75 million.
The acquisition of WBOQ allows K-Love to reach some areas of the Boston market not covered by its primary station in the area, WKVB (107.3 FM).
EMF completed its acquisition of the station on September 28, 2022; on October 5, it applied to change the call sign to WNKC effective October 20.
The actual change of the call sign occurred on October 21.


References

Conniff, Richard (September 15, 1986).
"In Massachusetts: Giving Music".
TIME.
Archived from the original on June 4, 2011.


External links

Facility details for Facility ID 61409 (WNKC)   in the FCC Licensing and Management System
WNKC in Nielsen Audio's FM station database

Mina. La voce del silenzio
Mina.
La voce del silenzio (English: Mina.
The voice of silence), with the subtitle Presenza e assenza di un'icona pop (English: Presence and absence of a pop icon), is a 2024 collection of essays dedicated to the Italian singer Mina.



Overview
This book takes us on a "journey" through the world of Italian music, television and culture over the last seventy years to better understand who Mina is and the mark she left on each of these fields.
The idea of the book is based on the international conference "Mina.
La voce del silenzio.
Presenza e assenza di un'icona pop" (English: Mina.
The voice of silence.
The presence and absence of a pop icon), organized at the Faculty of Humanities of the University of Turin in 2021.
The conference materials were reworked and expanded by the curators Giulia Maggio, Gabriele Rigola and Jacopo Tomatis, who compiled it, divided into three parts ("Ascoltare Mina," "Guardare Mina," "Immaginare Mina").
The singer Ivano Fossati wrote the foreword.

The book was released on 22 November 2024 by il Saggiatore, simultaneously with the release of Mina's studio album, Gassa d'amante.


References


External links
Official website

Heello
Heello was an online social networking service and microblogging service launched in August 2011, and owned and operated by Heello Inc.
Heello enabled its users to send and read text-based posts and to share pictures and videos.
Heello was founded by Noah Everett (the founder of Twitpic), exactly one day after Twitter rolled out its official photo-sharing app.
Heello is financed by the money generated by TwitPic through online advertising.
Within the first day, there were about average 4 Pings a second.
On 12 August 2011, Noah Everett reported that Heello had reached 1 million Pings in just 2 days.
As of September 2012, the Heello API had not been released, and developers were trying to create applications/tools using alternative ways.
On 8 August 2012, the Heello team announced via Twitter that they were working on a new version of the website The link new.heello.com Archived 2012-08-25 at the Wayback Machine that they Tweeted on their Twitter account and Pinged from their website mentioned the development of mobile applications for the iPhone and Android platforms.
A post from their blog  stated that the new version's main features were going to be:

a simple user interface that focused on the user's timeline
inline photos and videos in timelines
native check-in functionality backed by a global database of over 58 million places
a big focus on their developer ecosystem
users would own their data
On the 12th of January 2013, Heello launched its new, updated web service to over 1 million Heello users.
The new update included Private Pings, header photos (similar to those of Facebook or Twitter), as well as a cleaner, slimmer design and an improved API.
These changes were widely welcomed throughout the Heello user base and were admired for their modern design.
Although it still had an ample number of errors throughout the platform, the company said it was working to help pull Heello back to its feet, and after 4 days of launching the new Heello, it said that it had over 65% of its user base back on and Pinging.
On June 23, 2014 the Heello team announced that Heello would be shutting down on August 15, 2014.
A link was provided to request an archive of user data.
Heello was no longer available after June 24, 2014.
It was unofficially re-created in Russia after 2014


Citations


References
Twitpic founder says Heello to Twitter clone, CNET, August 10, 2011
TwitPic founder launching stealth startup Heello, TheNextWeb, 2010-08-10
Twitpic founder launches Twitter competitor Heello, 2011-08-10
Heello en Espanol, 2012-01-28, archived from the original on 2013-02-21, retrieved 2013-01-28

麒麟 (disambiguation)
麒麟, meaning qilin or giraffe, may refer to:

Awaiting Kirin (麒麟がくる), 2020 Japanese historical drama television series
Girin Eye (기린의 눈), Lee Kwang-Soo's new name in South Korean variety show Running Man
Girin-myeon (기린면, 麒麟面), a township in South Korea
Guo Qilin (郭麒麟; born 1996), Chinese actor and crosstalk (Xiangsheng) performer
Kei Lun stop (麒麟站), at-grade MTR Light Rail stop


See also

 The dictionary definition of 麒麟 at Wiktionary
Giraffe (disambiguation)
Girin (disambiguation)
Kirin (disambiguation)
Qilin (disambiguation)

Castle Bytham
Castle Bytham is a village and civil parish of around 300 houses in South Kesteven, Lincolnshire, England.
It is located 9 miles (14 km) north of Stamford and 9 miles (14 km) west of Bourne.
The population was measured at 768 in 317 households at the 2011 census.
At one time the village was an important commercial centre for the surrounding agricultural communities, but it is now largely a dormitory, although a number of farming families remain with a much reduced workforce.


History

The name 'Bytham' is first recorded in 1067 (as a monastery that rapidly translated to Vaudey Abbey), and comes from the Old English word bythme meaning Valley bottom, broad valley.
 In the Domesday survey of 1086 the village was known as West Bytham as the castle had yet to be built.
People have named the river that runs through the village the Tham or Am as a back-formation from the village name.
Morkery Wood housed a former bomb dump during the Second World War for the nearby airfields.
In the early hours of 19 November 1942 Handley Page Halifax BB209 NP-G of 158 Sqn, from RAF Rufforth in North Yorkshire, crashed near Stocken Hall Farm (in the wood).
It had been hit by flak south-east of Paris coming back from a raid on Turin, Italy.
Half the aircrew were in the RCAF.


Castle
Overlooking the village is an 11th-century Norman castle mound.
The site of the castle in Saxon times was owned by Morcar, also known as Morkere, who was the brother of Ealdgyth, wife of King Harold.
The castle, which gave its name to the village, was built soon after the Norman Conquest of 1066, and was given by the Conqueror to his half brother Odo, Bishop of Bayeux and Earl of Kent; it was later owned by William le Gros, 1st Earl of Albemarle, and passed to the family of Coleville.
During the First Barons' War it was occupied by William de Forz, 3rd Earl of Albemarle aided by William d'Aubigny, Sir Richard Siward, Henry de Hastings and William de Hastings..
In 1221, after a siege, the castle was captured by Henry III with the help of Hugh de Mortimer and William de Warenne, 5th Earl of Surrey and restored to its lord, the former rebel William de Coleville.
In the 14th century the castle was occupied by the Earls of Hereford and in 1394 the children of John of Gaunt’s son Henry Bolingbroke (later to become King Henry IV), including his eldest son Henry who was to become Henry V the victor of Agincourt, came to live at the castle with their grandmother Joan, the dowager countess of Hereford.
The castle was burnt in the 15th century during the Wars of the Roses.
In the 16th century John Leland described remnants of the castle: "yet remained great walls of buildings".


1961 air crash
At lunchtime on Wednesday 1 February 1961 Jet Provost 'XN460' crashed near Cabbage Hill.
Pilot Officer IF Mitchinson of Grove Park, London, parachuted to Scottlethorpe, four miles away.
He had flown from RAF Syerston.
Fire engines from Cottesmore, Oakham and Corby attended.
Ian Francis Mitchinson, of Somertrees Avenue, was the son of Francis John Mitchinson.
He attended St Joseph's College, Upper Norwood and West Ham College of Technology.
He joined the RAF in October 1959, and passed out of RAF Jurby in May 1960.
As a Flight Lieutenant, aged 37 in 1975, he died in Gibraltar.


Geography

The nearest town is Stamford (even though Castle Bytham is in the Grantham postal area, with a Nottingham postcode).
It is at the apex of the NG (Grantham), LE (Rutland) and PE (Stamford) postcodes.
The village is very close to the Rutland boundary.
The civil parish extends much to the north-west of the village, up to Woolley's Lane, including Red Barn Quarry, owned by Bullimores.
It also extends westwards to include all of Morkery Wood (originally named Morkerhaw – named after the Saxon earl Morcar mentioned above).
South of the A1 interchange to Woolley's Lane, the parish boundary is with North Witham, including Park House Farm.
The eastern buildings of Stocken Hall Farm lie in the parish (with an LE15 postcode), with the rest in Stretton.
To the east, Little Haw Wood is also in the parish.
Southwards, the civil parish extends to (and includes) Pillowsyke Holt, a piece of woodland near Holywell.
Eastwards, the parish extends for about half a mile, where it includes the 30 acre Lawn Wood which has been a nature reserve since 1995, joining two neighbouring meadows that were donated to Lincolnshire Wildlife Trust in 1993.
The meadows are a good site for buttercups and yellow rattle, and are managed to encourage butterflies, including the ringlet, and the meadow brown.
The wood is mainly oak and ash, but includes field maple, midland hawthorn and the uncommon wild service tree; woodland flora such as wood anemone, woodruff and early purple orchid also found there.
Fallow deer and red deer are frequently seen in the reserve.


Businesses in Castle Bytham
The Clever Coop Company
Steel Landscaping Co.
Waggy Tailz
The Rosewell Centre


Surrounding area
About 1 mile (2 km) to the east lies Little Bytham.
The two villages used to be called West and East Bytham.
To the west, on the western side of the A1 road, is South Witham near the source of the River Witham.
The village's vicar, and that of the Bythams Group, is also the wife of the vicar of South Witham.
Between the village and the A1 the Lincolnshire Wildlife Trust maintains an important wildlife reserve at Tortoiseshell Wood (which borders on to the west of the civil parish) and some of the road verges are protected for wildlife by Lincolnshire County Council.
Tortoiseshell Wood is in the parish of North Witham, although the edge lies on the parish boundary.
West of the village, towards Clipsham, is a Yew Tree Avenue maintained by the Forestry Commission, the trees cut into large topiary forms.


Community

The Ecclesiastical parish is part of the Castle Bytham with Creeton group of the Deanery of Beltisloe.
The incumbent is Revd S.
M.
Evans.
Castle Bytham's community supports several events each year in the village hall.
Every year Castle Bytham holds a midsummer fair and street market, with stalls, a duck grand prix, dog show, funfair, children's games, beer tents and barbecues.
The fair has raised over £40,000 for local causes including a Christmas lunch for pensioners and a children's party, and village infrastructure improvements.
Efforts are currently being made to improve the village recreation ground for the benefit of local young people and a 2010 Parish Plan suggested wider improvements.
The former RAF Coningsby station commander (1974–60) and Commandant of the Central Flying School (1979–83) lives in the village, and a former resident on Glen Road was Harold Wilson's press secretary, Trevor Lloyd-Hughes.
There is a village shop on Pinfold Road.
Castle Bytham Post Office  was closed in 2008 despite local opposition.
It had served Creeton, Swinstead, Swayfield, Little Bytham and Clipsham, and other nearby small villages – it has now been replaced by a mobile 'outreach' service.
There are two remaining public houses in the village.The New Inn on Station Road was converted to housing in the 1960s.


Former railway station
The village had a railway station on the Midland and Great Northern Joint Railway, the remains of which can still be seen.
This railway station was rather unusual, being a single platform in a deep cutting through the village.
The railway station was not originally planned by the railway, but was added after considerable local lobbying.
It remained open, as did the goods yard on the other side of the road, until the line closed in 1959.
 West of the village the line of the railway now forms a road crossing under the A1.


Places of worship
The church, started in the 12th century, and restored in 1900, is dedicated to St James  and is one of a group of parishes in the rural deanery of Beltisloe.
It contains an unusual memento of the English Restoration: a ladder, formerly used in the tower, with a carved inscription which reads "THIS WARE THE MAY POVL 1660" (see photograph), suggesting that May celebrations were held in the village (as they were throughout the country) to mark the Restoration of King Charles II.
There was at one time a Methodist chapel in High Street (now a private house), served by visiting ministers from Stamford.
On its closure in 1972 the Methodist Circuit still sent a preacher to the village for a few years, service taking place in the parish church.


Publications
Wild, John, (1871); The History of Castle Bytham: Its Ancient Fortress and Manor BiblioBazaar (2008) ISBN 0-554-79494-2 / Nabu Press (2010) ISBN 978-1-147-70286-6
Chorlton, Martyn; Danger Area: The Complete History of RAF South Witham, 100 MU Old Forge Publishing (2003) ISBN 0-9544507-2-8


See also
Castle Bytham Quarry
Little Bytham
Bytham Castle
Bytham River
Parish outline map


References


External links
 Media related to Castle Bytham at Wikimedia Commons

"Local web site".
"Village web site".
"Summer Fair web site".
Photographic history of Castle Bytham
History of the village
Lawn Wood, Bottleneck and Jacksons nature reserve
"History of Castle Bytham, in South Kesteven and Lincolnshire".
A Vision of Britain through Time.
GB Historical GIS / University of Portsmouth.
Retrieved 19 August 2013.
"all 26 records for the parish".
PastScape.
English Heritage.
Retrieved 19 August 2013.
"Funeral march for village post office", Stamford and Rutland Mercury, 1 November 2007
"How DNA saved an 'extinct' breed", BBC News, 20 August 2004
"Farmer jailed over cannabis find", BBC News, 21 November 2003

Georg Christian Knapp
Georg Christian Knapp (17 September 1753 – 14 October 1825) was a German Protestant theologian.


Biography
He was born in Glaucha, now a part of Halle, and received his early education in the orphan school at Halle (German: Franckesche Stiftungen), of which his father was director.
He later studied theology at the Universities of Halle and Göttingen.
In 1777 he was an associate professor at Halle, where in 1782 he became a full professor of theology.
In 1785 he was appointed Kondirektor of the Franckesche Stiftungen (Francke Foundations), where beginning in 1799, along with August Hermann Niemeyer, he served as co-director.
He died in Halle.
Knapp was a proponent of the Pietist Christian thought, and a representative of rational Biblical Supranaturalism.
He was the author of a book on the Psalms (published over 11 editions from 1778 to 1789), and of "Vorlesungen über die christliche Glaubenslehre", a work that was later translated into English (with some additions) as "Lectures on Christian Theology" by Leonard Woods, Jr.
He also published biographical sketches of Pietist theologians August Hermann Francke, Philipp Jakob Spener and Johann Anastasius Freylinghausen.
Knapp was father-in-law to theologian Johann Karl Thilo (1794–1853).


Selected works
Die Psalmen (11 editions) 1778–1789.
"Novum Testamentum graece.
Recognovit atque insignioris lectionum varietatis et argumentorum notationes" 1797.
"Scripta varii argumenti maximam partem exegetici atque historici", 1805.
Dr.
Georg Christian Knapp's Vorlesungen über die christliche Glaubenslehre nach dem Lehrbegriff der evangelischen Kirche, Halle : Buchhandlung des Waisenhauses, 1827.
(with Johann Karl Thilo).
"Hē Kainē Diathēkē = Novum Testamentum Graece", Halis Saxonum : Orphanotrophei, 1829.
Lectures on Christian theology : Knapp, Georg Christian (online text) (2nd ed.).
N.
Tibbals, New York.
1845.


References

Horatio G. Knight
Horatio Gates Knight (March 24, 1818 – October 16, 1895) was an American politician, manufacturer and philanthropist who served as the 30th lieutenant governor of Massachusetts from 1875 to 1879.
 Knight was part owner and president of a leading button manufacturer in his native Easthampton, Massachusetts.


Life
Horatio Knight was born in Easthampton, Massachusetts to Sylvester and Rachel (Lyman) Knight.
 He was educated in the local public schools, as well as by private tutors.
 At fourteen Knight was apprenticed into the retail establishment of Samuel Williston, whose principal business in Easthampton was the manufacture of buttons.
 Knight rose within Williston's businesses, becoming a full partner at age 24 and eventually president of the Williston and Knight Company.
 He also served as director of several area banks, as well as on the boards of area educational institutions and charities.
Knight's political career began with election to the Massachusetts House of Representatives in 1852 as a Whig, serving two terms.
 He next served two terms as state senator in 1858 and 1859, having joined the new Republican Party.
 During the American Civil War he was tapped by Governor John Andrew as the military draft commissioner for Hampshire County.
 In this role he relied on enlistments to fill the county's quotas for war duty, spending some of his fortune in the recruitment effort.
 In 1868 he was elected to the Massachusetts Governor's Council, where he served two terms.
 In 1874 he was nominated by the party to be its candidate for lieutenant governor, and served for terms under Democrat William Gaston and Republican Alexander H.
Rice.
Knight married Mary Ann Huntoon in 1841; the couple had seven children, of which two died in infancy.
He is the first cousin of Vinson Knight (an early leader in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints).
Horatio G.
Knight died in Northampton, Massachusetts on October 16, 1895.


See also
80th Massachusetts General Court (1859)


References

Clear and present danger (disambiguation)
Clear and present danger was a doctrine adopted by the US Supreme Court to determine when limits can be placed on freedoms defined by the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

Clear and present danger may also refer to:

Clear and Present Danger, a 1989 novel by Tom Clancy
Clear and Present Danger (film), a 1994 film adaptation
"Clear and Present Danger", a 2014 episode of the ABC TV series Castle
"A Clear and Present Danger", a 2009 episode of the NBC TV series Heroes

Ayberk Pekcan
Ayberk Pekcan (22 May 1970 – 24 January 2022) was a Turkish actor and former civil servant, politician and labourer.


Life and career
Born on 22 May 1970 in Mersin, Ayberk Pekcan spent his childhood and youth in Adana and his birthplace.
After studying his primary and secondary education in Adana and high school in Mersin, he graduated from Mersin University Faculty of Fine Arts, Department of Theater.
Pekcan was a labourer, a civil servant, and a teacher.
He was a political member of the Social Democratic Populist Party in 1991 in local government.
In 2001, he resigned as a civil servant, settled in Istanbul and became a TV and film actor.


2001–2015
He played leading roles in television series Ihlamurlar Altında, Yaprak Dökümü, Kurtlar Vadisi and Keşanlı Ali Destanı.
In 2010, his film, Saç received awards at national and international film festivals.
He won best supporting actor at the Ankara International Film Festival.
Ayberk Pekcan, who has starred in many films and series, played the role of Artuk Bey in the popular TV series Diriliş: Ertuğrul.


2015–2019: Diriliş: Ertuğrul
As Diriliş: Ertuğrul was well received in Pakistan, Ayberk Pekcan, along with Nurettin Sönmez, who plays the role of Bamsı Beyrek, arrived in the country to meet fans in 2020 on a three-day visit.
They came with Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu and a 20-member delegation.
On their visit, they met Pakistani actor Hamza Ali Abbasi's sister Dr.
Fazeela Abbasi and Nurettin Sönmez was "humbled" by Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan's appreciation of Diriliş: Ertuğrul while also expressing his desire to work with Pakistani actors.
On the occasion, Ayberk Pekcan said, “...Pakistan and Turkey are brotherly countries, people of both countries are also brothers and Pakistan is our second homeland...” Before leaving, they also visited the Pak-Turk Maarif Chak Shahzad Campus, in Islamabad.
Pekcan was also staying in touch with the Kuruluş: Osman cast, the sequel to Diriliş: Ertuğrul, sharing an image with them on Instagram.


Death
Ayberk Pekcan died from lung cancer in Mersin on 24 January 2022, at the age of 51.


Filmography


Film
Dilberay (2022)
Mustang (2015) - Erol
Kış Uykusu (2014) - Hıdayet
Aşk ve Devrim (2011) - Pala
Saç  (2010) - Hamdi
Ali'nin Sekiz Günü (2008) - Hacı
Neredesin Firuze (2003) - Pislik
Şeytan Bunun Neresinde (2002) - Köy Muhtarı/Terörist Başı
Abdülhamid Düşerken  (2002) - Katip Ali Şevki


Television
Diriliş: Ertuğrul (2015–2019) - Artuk Bey
Sevdam Alabora (2015) - Hakan
Poyraz Karayel (2014)
Bir Aşk Hikayesi (2013) - Tahsin
Keşanlı Ali Destanı  (2011-2012) - Teke Kazım
Kurtlar Vadisi Pusu  (2008-2010) - Şemo
Yaprak Dökümü (2007) - Talat
Körfez Ateşi (2005) - Esat
Ihlamurlar Altında  (2005) - Ekrem/Aynalı
Emanet ve İhanet (2004) - Ali
Dağlar Dağımdır (2005)
Türkü Filmi (2004)
Taşı Sıksam Suyunu Çıkarırım (2004)
Bir Dilim Aşk (2004) - Bülent
Kurtlar Vadisi (2004) - Doctor
Parmak İzi (2003)
Kampüsistan  (2003)
Hayat Bilgisi  (2003) - Mustafa
Yarım Elma (2002)
Sırlar Dünyası  (2002) - Muammer
Bayanlar Baylar (2002)
Tatlı Hayat  (2001)


Awards and nominations


References


External links
Ayberk Pekcan at IMDb

Ski Oakenfull
Dominic "Ski" Oakenfull (best known as Ski Oakenfull) is an English music producer, keyboard player, and educator.
His nickname "Ski" was given by his bandmates in The K-Creative who named him after the dance music artist Adamski.
In 2019 Ski interviewed Adamski for a deconstruction video for pointblank Music School.


Career


Collaborations
Ski Oakenfull was a member of The K-Creative, who signed to Gilles Peterson's record label Talkin' Loud in 1991, and their single Feed The Feeling / Three Times A Maybe reached #58 in the UK Singles Charts in 1992.
After the group disbanded, Oakenfull was a member of Raw Stylus, and then played keyboards with Galliano until 1997, and again on their 2024 album Halfway Somewhere.
He has also performed with Incognito, Kylie Minogue, The Bays, and Milton Jackson.


Solo work
Oakenfull released his debut album Life Changes in 2000.
Muzik rated it 4/5 and praised its mix of house, disco, soul and jazz-funk music styles.
All Music rated it 3/5, and described it as "bringing back to life one of club/dance's most trendy circuits dating back to the early '90s." The album featured single Where Did The Love Go?, and Fifths, with the latter becoming the most played unplaylisted track on MTV Europe at the time.
He also produces and releases music under the alias Ayota, a project that explores ambient, downtempo, and Japanese-influenced electronic soundscapes, blended with field recordings and vocals.
The project's debut album, Helicopter Cuts, was released in 2007 on Third Ear Recordings in Japan where it became the Tower Records ambient album of the year.


Education work
In 2012 Oakenfull began teaching at pointblank Music School, and later became a Certified Trainer of music production software Ableton Live.
He is now Head of Education and Curriculum at the school, where he oversees the design and management of its music degree programmes.
Oakenfull is also widely recognised for his in-depth breakdowns of iconic tracks known as 'deconstructions' which he often presents live at festivals and conferences such as IMS, Sonar+, ADE, and AVA.


Record label
Oakenfull is also label manager and owner of Primaudial Records, an independent label he founded in the early 2000s to release his own material and selected projects by other artists.
The label has served as a platform for Oakenfull's creative output, ranging from house to ambient and jazz.


Select discography


Solo albums


Solo singles, EPs and compilation tracks


Charts


References


External links
Official website
Ski Oakenfull discography at Discogs
Dominic Oakenfull discography at Discogs

Absorption heat transformer
An absorption heat transformer (AHT) is a device which transfers heat from an intermediate temperature level to a high temperature level by means of an absorption process.
It is driven by the temperature difference between the intermediate temperature and a low temperature level.
The absorption heat transformer splits a heat flow 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                Q
                ˙
              
            
          
          
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\dot {Q}}_{1}}
  
 at an intermediate temperature level 
  
    
      
        
          T
          
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle T_{1}}
  
 in two heat flows, 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                Q
                ˙
              
            
          
          
            2
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\dot {Q}}_{2}}
  
 at a higher (revaluated) temperature level 
  
    
      
        
          T
          
            2
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle T_{2}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                Q
                ˙
              
            
          
          
            0
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\dot {Q}}_{0}}
  
 at a lower temperature level 
  
    
      
        
          T
          
            0
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle T_{0}}
  
 (rejection heat).
Such a device is also denominated type II absorption heat pump or booster heat pump.
Absorption heat transformers are especially suitable for heat recovery from industrial processes, its main advantage being the capacity to upgrade to a usable level the temperature of waste heat streams using only negligible quantities of electrical energy and no additional primary energy.



Definition of the thermal coefficient of performance

  
    
      
        C
        O
        
          P
          
            t
            h
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              
                
                  
                    Q
                    ˙
                  
                
              
              
                2
              
            
            
              
                
                  
                    Q
                    ˙
                  
                
              
              
                1
              
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              r
              e
              v
              a
              l
              u
              e
              d
               
              h
              e
              a
              t
            
            
              t
              o
              t
              a
              l
               
              d
              r
              i
              v
              i
              n
              g
               
              h
              e
              a
              t
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle COP_{th}={\frac {{\dot {Q}}_{2}}{{\dot {Q}}_{1}}}={\frac {revalued\ heat}{total\ driving\ heat}}}
  

It revaluates approximately 50% of the driving heat flow.
The temperature lift from the intermediate to the high temperature level is up to 50K.

The simplest construction, a single effect absorption heat transformer, consists of one condenser, one evaporator, one absorber and one generator.
In contrast to a type I absorption heat pump an absorption heat transformer operates in reverse.

The difference with absorption heat pump is that the absorber and evaporator now operate at high pressure and the condenser and generator at low pressure.
The most common working pairs are water/lithium bromide (refrigerant = water, absorbent = LiBr) and ammonia/water (refrigerant = ammonia, absorbent = water).


Process
A single absorption heat transformer consists of an absorber, generator, evaporator and condenser.
In addition, there are a refrigerant pump, solution pump, solution throttle and solution heat exchanger for internal heat recovery.
At the evaporator the refrigerant evaporates by the heat input at intermediate temperature level.
The refrigerant vapour is absorbed in the absorber.
Due to the released heat of absorption the process delivers heat at the high temperature level.
This heat is the revalued heat.
Consequently, the absorbent is diluted while absorbing the refrigerant vapour.
That diluted absorbent streams through the throttle to the generator.
In the generator the refrigerant desorbs from the diluted solution.
This process is driven by the heat input at the intermediate temperature level.
The refrigerant vapour is condensed in the condenser and it is pumped by the refrigerant pump into the evaporator.
The heat at the condenser occurs at low temperature level.
The concentrated absorbent is pumped into the absorber by the solution pump.


References

List of VCU Rams men's basketball seasons
The VCU Rams men's college basketball team competes in the National Collegiate Athletic Association's (NCAA) Division I, representing Virginia Commonwealth University in the Atlantic 10 Conference.
VCU has played its home games at Stuart C.
Siegel Center in Richmond, Virginia since its opening in 1999.


Seasons


References

Reno Rumble season 1
Reno Rumble is the first season of Australian reality television series Reno Rumble, it aired on the Nine Network.
Season one had former contestants from The Block on the Nine Network against former contestants from House Rules on the Seven Network.
It was hosted by Scott Cam and judged by Darren Palmer and Romy Alwill.
It premiered on May 5, 2015.
The season was won by Ayden and Jess Hogan who received $100,000 with half to charity and a Mazda CX-5.


Format
Each week each individual team within The Redbacks (The Block) and The Bluetongues (House Rules) are allocated two rooms to deliver, first room is delivered within the first 48 hours, the highest scored individual team will receive immunity from elimination.
The teams will then work on their second room the rest of the week, the team with the highest score are safe from elimination, the individual team with the lowest score in the losing team are eliminated.


Contestants
Nine has announced the 8 teams from The Block & House Rules who will compete on Reno Rumble.


Elimination history


Weekly Results

  The team was on the losing team.
  The team was the winning team
  The team had immunity
  The team was eliminated.
  The team were eliminated as team captains
  Series winner
  Series runner up


Results


Week 1
Episodes 1 to 5
Airdate — 5 to 11 May 2015
Location — Mill Park
The week is split in two, The first 48 hours of renovation is to renovate their first room and the individual team with the highest score will receive immunity from elimination.
The rest of the week is to renovate the second room, the whole team (red or blue) with the highest score are the weeks winning team and avoid elimination, the lowest scoring individual team in the losing team will be eliminated.

Colour key:
  – Immunity
  – Eliminated
  – Eliminated as Team Captains
  – Winning Team
  – Losing Team


Week 2
Episodes 6 to 9
Airdate — 12 to 17 May 2015
Location — Northcote
The redbacks had to add a team space to be judged for first room to make up points due to the eliminated team.


Week 3
Episodes 10 to 13
Airdate — 18 to 24 May 2015
Location — Hampton


Week 4
Episodes 14 to 16
Airdate — 25 to 31 May 2015
Location — Yarraville
This week, a team member from each side were swapped.
Ayden and Jess joined bluetongues and Ben and Jemma joined redbacks


Week 5 (Semi-Finals Week)
Episodes 17 to 20
Airdate — 1 to 7 June 2015
Location — Kingsville
Due to Ben & Jemma's (Bluetongue) elimination, Carly and Leighton, the last bluetongue team, will have Ayden & Jess stay on as a Bluetongue team.
There were no team captains as each couple on each team worked as one.
This week has a double elimination & no immunity but an extra $10,000 for their reno.
First rooms tied scores and both received $5,000 extra.


Week 6 (Grand Final Week)
Episodes 21 to 27
Airdate — 8 to 22 June 2015
Location — Seddon
For the second rooms, each team got to receive a helping hand from an eliminated team, bluetongues chose Jemma and Ben and redbacks choose Kyal and Kara.


Ratings
Colour key:
  – Highest rating during the series
  – Lowest rating during the series
  – An elimination was held in this episode
  – Finals week


Notes
a Preliminary ratings – viewers and nightly position.
b Includes Team Space points
c Redback team were swapped to Bluetongues team
d Bluetongue team were swapped to Redbacks team


References

New South Wales Arrows
The New South Wales Arrows are a nationally competing field hockey team based in Sydney, Australia.

 Their most recent Australian Hockey League title win was in 2014.
In 2015, NSW beat the ACT in the bronze medal playoff, securing 3rd place in the final rankings after beating Canberra Labor Club Strikers 3-1.
The NSW Arrows are the most successful team in the AHL, winning a record 9 titles in the years 1993, 1996, 1998-2002, 2009 and 2014.


See also

Sports in Australia
Field hockey


References


External links
Hockey NSW

Andragathus
Andragathus (Ancient Greek: Ἀνδράγαθος) was a man in ancient Greece given command of the garrison at Amphipolis by Demetrius I of Macedon in 287 BCE to keep the threat of rival general Lysimachus in check while Demetrius went off to wage war against Pyrrhus of Epirus at Beroea (now modern Veria).
Andragathus surrendered the city to Lysimachus, perhaps after being offered a bribe.
In some works, the name Andragathus is used to refer to the murderer of Roman emperor Gratian.
This person's name was actually Andragathius.


Notes

 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William (1870).
"Andragathus".
In Smith, William (ed.).
Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology.
Vol.
1.
p.
170.

Duke Worne
Howard "Duke" Worne (December 14, 1888 – October 13, 1933) was an American director and actor of the silent era.
He directed more than 70 films between 1919 and 1931.
He also appeared in 27 films between 1914 and 1928.
He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and died in Los Angeles, California.
In 1930, Worne married silent film actress Virginia Brown Faire, to whom he remained married until his death three years later in 1933.


Selected filmography


References


External links

Duke Worne at IMDb

Treaty Oak
Treaty Oak may refer to:

Treaty Oak (Austin, Texas), extant
Treaty Oak (Jacksonville), in Florida, extant
Treaty Oak (New York City), toppled in a storm in March 1909
Treaty Oak (Washington, D.C.), felled in 1953
Treaty Oak Revival, an American country music band based in Odessa, Texas


See also
All pages with titles containing Treaty Oak
Treaty Tree, in Cape Town, South Africa
Old Treaty Elm, in Chicago, Illinois, stood until 1934

Chak Mansur
Chak Mansur is one of 38 villages in the rural Mansurchak Block of the Begusarai district of the state of Bihar in India.


References


External links
Chak Mansur on Wikivillage Archived 18 December 2018 at the Wayback Machine

Yisrael Shomer
Yisrael Shomer (Hebrew: ישראל שומר; born 30 August 1977) is an officer in the Israeli Defense Forces with the rank of brigadier general.
He currently serves as the head of the Operations Division.
Previously, he served as the commander of the HaMeptz formation, the head of the operations department in the Israel Defense Forces, the commander of the Nahal Brigade, an officer of the Southern Command, head of the planning and organization department in the Israeli Ground Forces, commander of the Binyamin Brigade and commander of the Nahal DGS.


Military career
In 2016, Shomer was appointed head of the planning and organization department in the Ground Forces, and served in the position until 2017, at the same time he was a trainee at the National Security College in the M.D.
cycle (2016–2017).
In July 2017, he was appointed as the commanding officer of the Southern Command, and served in the position until August 2019.
On 15 August 2019, Shomer was appointed commander of the Nahal Brigade, in which he held until 28 June 2021.
On that day, Sharon Asman was appointed as the new commander.
However, three days later, on 1 July, Asman suddenly died during morning training.
As a result, Shomer was issued command in which he held until 1 September 2021.
In his next position, he was the head of the Operations Department at the Operations Division, holding this position until July 2023.
Shomer, a resident of kibbutz Kfar Aza, participated in the defense of the community during the Kfar Aza massacre during the October 7 attacks.
After leaving his wife and children locked in their home's saferoom, he called a number of IDF generals, including Chief of Staff Herzi Halevi, and ventured outside armed with a knife to fight the attacking militants before picking up a rifle from a wounded member of the kibbutz security team.
He participated in the defense of the kibbutz for hours and by his own estimation killed around 20 militants.
After IDF reinforcements arrived and began wresting control of the kibbutz from the attackers and he confirmed his family was safe, he left to join his IDF unit along the border with Lebanon.


References

Syntomeida ipomoeae
Syntomeida ipomoeae, the yellow-banded wasp moth or orange-banded wasp moth, is a moth in the subfamily Arctiinae.
It was described by Thaddeus William Harris in 1839.
It is found in the US states of Florida and Georgia.


References

Pitkin, Brian & Jenkins, Paul (2023).
"Search results Family: Arctiidae".
Butterflies and Moths of the World.
Natural History Museum, London.
doi:10.5519/s93616qw.

Silas Sanderson
Silas Woodruff Sanderson (April 16, 1824 – June 24, 1886) was the seventh Chief Justice of California.


Biography
Born in Sandgate, Vermont, Sanderson attended Burr Seminary, Williams College, and Union College, graduating from the last in 1846; he was soon admitted to the bar in New York state.
He then moved to Florida where he went into practice with his older brother, John, in Jacksonville.
In December 1847, Sanderson was named assistant secretary to the president of the Florida Senate.
In August 1850, he visited Washington, D.C.
Later in 1850, he sailed to California via the Strait of Magellan and settled in Coloma.
As a Democrat, Sanderson was elected district attorney in El Dorado County.
In June 1861, during the American Civil War, he spoke against the secessionist sentiment at the Breckenridge Democratic Party convention.
He became a Republican and backed Leland Stanford for Governor of California in the November 1861 election, serving on a committee to organize the inaugural ball.
In November 1862, Sanderson ran on the Union branch of the Democratic Party ticket and was elected to the California State Assembly from El Dorado.

The following year, under a constitutional amendment reorganizing the courts, all of the seats of the Supreme Court of California were open for election.
In June 1863, Sanderson was nominated by the Republicans.
In October 1863, he was  elected, and by the drawing of lots among the new justices he received the short, two-year term.
Under the rules of the court, the justice with the shortest term served as Chief Justice, and so he held the position from January 2, 1864, to January 1866, when his term expired.
In November 1865, he beat Democrat H.
H.
Hartley, and was re-elected to the Court as an Associate Justice, serving from January 1866 to January 4, 1870.
In 1870, he resigned from the court to head the legal department at the Southern Pacific Railroad, a post he held for the next 16 years.
Sanderson died June 24, 1886, at his home in San Francisco.
He was buried at Laurel Hill Cemetery, however by 1941, most of the remains had been moved to Colma, California.


Personal life
On March 3, 1858, Sanderson married Margaret Beatty Ormsby (c.
1839 – October 21, 1913) of Sacramento, California.
They had four daughters, including Sibyl Sanderson, a notable operatic soprano.


Footnotes


Further reading
Hansen, Jack Winsor (2005).
The Sibyl Sanderson Story: Requiem for a Diva.
Amadeus Press.
p.
1-5.
ISBN 1574670948, ISBN 9781574670943.


External links
"Silas W.
Sanderson".
California Supreme Court Historical Society.
Retrieved July 7, 2017.
Past & Present Justices.
California State Courts.
Retrieved July 19, 2017.


See also

List of justices of the Supreme Court of California
Augustus Rhodes
John Currey
Lorenzo Sawyer
Oscar L.
Shafter

West Breifne
The Kingdom of West Breifne (Irish: Breifne Ua Ruairc) or Breifne O'Rourke was a historic kingdom of Ireland that existed from 1256 to 1605, located in the area that is now County Leitrim.
It took its present boundaries in 1583 when West Breifne was shired and renamed Leitrim, after the village of Leitrim, which was an O'Rourke stronghold.
The kingdom came into existence after a battle between the ruling O'Rourke clan and the ascendant O'Reillys caused the breakup of the older Kingdom of Breifne and  led to the formation of East Breifne and West Breifne.
The kingdom was ruled by the O'Rourke clan and lasted until the early 17th century, when their lands were confiscated by England.


Early history


Formation
In 1172, Tighearnán Ua Ruairc, the longtime Lord of Breifne and Conmaice, was betrayed and killed at Tlachtgha during negotiations with Hugh de Lacy, Lord of Meath.
Tighearnán was beheaded, and his head and body were conveyed to the Anglo-Normans in Dublin, where it was put on display.
The assassination of Tighernán caused a war of succession in Breifne and for the next hundred years there would be no long-standing King of Breifne, as rival branches of the O'Rourke clan fought for the kingship.
This time of turbulence in the kingdom caused a great rift between the various branches of clan O'Rourke, with regular fighting between rival members.
The instability and weakness of Breifne, which had already lost much of its territory during the Norman invasion, prompted the O'Reilly in the east of the kingdom to launch a campaign against the ruling O'Rourke dynasty.
By the late 1230s the O'Reilly had usurped control of Breifne, Cathal O'Reilly ruled as king from the east of the kingdom and Cúchonnacht O'Reilly, Connacht's foremost general and close ally of King Felim O'Conor, had militarily taken control of western Breifne and expelled the O'Rourke leaders.
The turbulent decades that followed saw the O'Reilly switch allegiance to the Norman de Burghs and the O'Rourke were once again allied to Connacht.
By 1250 the O'Reilly had been pushed back out of western Breifne as Connacht advanced into their eastern homeland.
In 1256 the devastating Battle of Magh Slecht was fought between Connacht and the O'Rourke clan against the O'Reilly.
Despite ending in an O'Rourke victory, they had lost complete control over the eastern half of their kingdom and the immediate chaos that ensued within West Breifne following the war left them without the power to retake it.
As a result, Breifne was left permanently divided into East Breifne (O'Reilly) and West Breifne (O'Rourke).


Conflict with Connacht

After successfully repelling de Burgh and the O'Reilly, the kings of Connacht, Tír Eoghain and Tír Chonaill met at Caoluisce Castle to agree to form a united front against the Normans in the future.
At these talks, which the O'Rourke lords of Breifne were excluded from, it was agreed that the king of Connacht was the rightful ruler of all of Breifne "from Kells to Drumcliff".
Consequently, Aedh O'Conor saw Breifne as an integral part of Connacht rather than an independent kingdom and, as heir to the kingship, was determined to rein in its leaders.
This put Aedh in direct confrontation with Conchobar O'Ruairc, king of West Breifne, who rebelled against him.
According to the Annals of Connacht, the two men "had been good comrades till now".
To assert West Breifne's independence, Conchobar made peace with the de Burghs without the permission of the king of Connacht, prompting Aedh O'Conor to launch raids on West Breifne.
In 1257, after a brief war, Conchobar submitted to O'Conor and signed a peace treaty offering O'Conor any lands of his choice in Breifne.
O'Conor obtained the stone castle on Cherry Island in Garadice Lough and put a garrison into it.
Later that year, Conchobar violated the terms of the treaty and forced O'Conor's garrison out of the castle before razing it.
Due to this act of betrayal, Aedh O'Conor elected Sitric O'Ruairc to replace Conchobar as king of West Breifne, however, Sitric was soon killed by Domnall, Conchobar's son, to avenge his father's dispossession.
This led to Domnall's arrest and imprisonment and Aedh O'Conor resumed raids on West Breifne.
This sparked a series of conflicts that lasted from 1257 to 1266 whereby Aedh O’Conor attempted to control the politics of West Breifne by instating and supporting his favoured candidates as kings, driving a wedge between the O’Rourkes, with devastating consequences for the unity and stability of the kingdom.
Amlaib was chosen to succeed Sitric, however the kingdom was in disarray and, like his predecessor, his authority as king was nominal.
His rule marks the first appearance in the annals of the king ruling "from the mountain westward" i.e.
west of Slieve Anieran on the eastern shore of Lough Allen – a situation that was to be repeated in the 15th century.
Art O’Ruairc, son of Cathal Riabach (King of Breifne, 1231–1236), ruled the east in opposition to Amlaib and Connacht.
In 1258, with the war against Connacht still ongoing, Conchobar was betrayed and murdered by his own men with the assistance of Matha O'Reilly, king of East Breifne, who had also risen up in rebellion against Aedh O'Conor.
After his father's death, Domnall was released from prison and instated as king of West Breifne.
However, shortly after his appointment as king, Domnall killed Magrath Mac Tiernan, chieftain of Tellach-Dunchada, which was a clan that held land within Breifne.
As a result of this killing, Domnall was deposed as king by the major clans of West Breifne, including Tellach-Dunchada, who executed Domnall's brother Cathal in retaliation.
After Domnall was deposed, Art O'Ruairc was supported by the major clans as the effective ruler of the entire kingdom, but in 1259, he was taken prisoner by Connacht.
Connacht continued to vie for control of Breifne and supported Art bec, Amlaib's brother, as king in 1260.
 Evidently, a rift emerged between the two as Aedh O'Conor killed Art bec, his own candidate for the kingship, that same year and met with Domnall.
After peace between the two kingdoms was agreed, kingship was returned to Domnall.
However, this peace was to be short-lived, in 1260 the Tellach-Dunchada killed Domnall and in 1261 Art O'Ruairc escaped from imprisonment and was made king by the chieftains of Breifne upon his return.
An attempt by Connacht to depose Art O'Ruairc and regain control of Breifne in 1261 failed when their army was defeated at Drumlahan by the O'Reilly and forced to retreat.
The conflict between Connacht and West Breifne ended in 1266, when Aedh O'Conor, now King of Connacht, launched a successful invasion of the kingdom and deposed Art O'Ruairc, instating Conchobar buide, son of King Amlaíb (1257–1258), as the new king.
Aedh O'Conor also took hostages from all the major clans of the kingdom.
The O'Rourke rebellion against Connacht's dominance was ultimately a failure, but the O'Reilly of East Breifne had succeeded in theirs and Connacht never regained control of the east.
Conchobar buide reigned with the support of the king of Connacht until his death in 1273.
He was succeeded by Tigernan, grandson of Ualgarg Ó Ruairc (King of Breifne, 1210–1231), who died just one year after his inauguration.
Following Tigernan's death, Art O'Ruairc would again become king in 1275 and reigned only for a short time before being killed in battle against the Normans near Granard and was succeeded by his son, Amlaib who reigned until 1307, when he was killed in battle against the MacSamhradhain of Tullyhaw.


Dynastic fracture

Domnall Carrach, Conchobar buide's brother, was inaugurated in 1307 and although he only ruled for four years until his death in 1311, his reign, but particularly that of his son Ualgarg Mór, marked the beginning of dynasty that would last for the rest of the kingdom's history.
Ualgarg Mór reigned for thirty years from 1316 to 1346 and restored power and prestige to West Breifne and the Ó Ruairc dynasty, which had been in decline for over a century and was under attack from almost all sides.
He was inaugurated in 1316 with the support of King Fedlim of Connacht and fought alongside Fedlim in the Second Battle of Athenry that year.
Following Fedlim's death at Athenry, Connacht descended into chaos as numerous contenders for its kingship emerged.
In 1318 Ualgarg Mór forged an alliance with Maelruanaid Mac Diarmata, King of Moylurg, to support Fedlim's son Toirdelbach as king of Connacht.
This was in competition to Domnall O'Conor of Clan Muircheartaigh Uí Conchobhair, who were at war with the Ó Ruaircs and were occupying large parts of West Breifne.
Clan Muircheartaigh arrived in West Breifne in the 1280s and by the time of Ualgarg Mór had assimilated into the kingdom.
Their chief Aedh Breifnach, as his name would suggest, was born and raised in Breifne and they had found staunch allies in Clan Mac Tiernan of Teallach Dunchadha.
They operated from their power base in West Breifne with the ultimate goal of re-establishing themselves as kings of Connacht, but for decades attempted to exercise control over all of Breifne (East and West) and were met with fierce resistance.
After decades of conflict, Ualgarg Mór drove Clan Muircheartaigh out of Breifne in 1343.
While in Calry, County Sligo in 1346, a battle unexpectedly erupted during which Ualgarg Mór was killed by Maelruanaid Mac Donnchada.
His dominance over the kingdom and his many children helped establish his line as the rulers of West Breifne for the rest of its history.
He was succeeded by his brother Flaithbheartach who ruled for 3 years before being overthrown by Ualgarg Mór's son Aodh bán.
Aodh bán killed Aedh mac Aedh Breifneach, chief of Clan Muircheartaigh and briefly the king of Connacht, in battle in 1350.
Cathal, Aedh mac Aedh Breifneach 's brother, killed Aodh bán in 1352 and re-instated Flaithbheartach as king, Clan Muircheartaigh's influence in West Breifne had returned.
However, Flaithbheartach died a few months into his reign and another of Ualgarg Mór's sons, Tadhg na gCaor, was made king.
Under Tadhg na gCaor's leadership, Clan Muircheartaigh were finally driven out of Breifne in 1370 with the help of the O'Reilly, O'Farrell, Mac Raghnaill and Maguires.
They sought refuge in MacWilliam Burke and never returned to West Breifne.
Tadhg na gCaor and his followers settled in Cenel Luacháin, an area in the modern barony of Carrigallen that included some parishes in western County Cavan.
He ruled from there until his death in 1376 and his younger brother Tigernán Mór succeeded him.
Tadhg na gCaor's descendants became the O'Rourke's of Carrigallen.
Tigernán Mór reigned for 42 years from his power base at Dromahair.
The later years of his reign were marked by a deepening rift between the various branches of the O'Rourke sept.
He died of natural causes at an old age in his stronghold at Dromahair on St.
Brigid's Day.
Art, son of Tadhg na gCaor, and the head of the Carrigallen O'Rourkes raised an army to vie for kingship but it was eventually passed to Tigernán Mór's son Aodh buidhe.
Aodh buidhe ruled from his father's castle for a year and half until his unexpected death in 1419 following an anomalously hot Autumn.
His brother Tadhg was chosen to succeed him, but Art proclaimed himself king and was elected by his supporters.
The stage had been set for the wars of succession which were to characterise the politics of West Breifne for the next century.


Wars of succession

For much of its history, West Breifne saw disputes over kingship, with persistent battles between rival factions.
As a result of factions consolidating power in their home regions, three distinct branches of royalty emerged in the 14th and 15th centuries, named after the areas in which they were based.
All three branches trace their lineage back to King Ualgarg mór (1316–1346).
The O'Rourkes of Dromahair were the main line of kings.
The term "O'Rourkes of Dromahair" only came into use after King Tigernán óg (1449–1468),  and refers to those based in the capital Dromahair in the west of the kingdom.
The O'Rourkes of Carrigallen were descendants from Tadhg na gCaor, Ualgarg mór's son, who reigned from 1352 to 1376.
Due to their strategic location east of Lough Allen and the Iron Mountains, they twice divided the kingdom along east–west lines.
The third branch, the O'Rourkes of Carha, based in the northwest, emerged in the mid-15th century with the crowning of King Donnchadh, great-grandson of Ualgarg mór.
The kingship of West Breifne during this volatile period largely depended upon the often capricious support of the other clans within the kingdom and the surrounding area, notably the MacSamhradhain, Mac Raghnaill and Tellach-Dunchada.


First 1419–1424
The most significant of the rivalries was between the O'Rourkes of Dromahair, those based in the capital, and the O'Rourkes of Carrigallen.
This rivalry would see the kingdom split between "East Breifne O'Rourke" (North Leitrim) and "West Breifne O'Rourke" (South Leitrim) at least twice.
The first was from 1419 to 1424, following the death of King Aedh Buidhe.
Aedh's brother, Tadhg, was chosen to succeed his brother as King, however in southern Leitrim, Art O'Rourke, son of King Tadhg na gCaor (1352–1376), was elected king with the support of the Tellach Dunchada, the Mac Raghnaill.
At his inauguration, Tadhg had declared himself "king of all Breifne" and as a result, Eoghan O'Reilly, king of East Breifne, threw his support behind Art O'Rourke and moved soldiers into Carrigallen.
Beset with problems back home just months later, the O'Reilly withdrew support for Art and his rebellion collapsed.
West Breifne was more or less completely under the control of Tadhg by the end of 1420 and Art was in exile, however it would take until 1424 for Art to finally submit to Tadhg.


Second 1435–1458
The second split occurred after King Tadhg's death in 1435.
King Tadhg was to be succeeded by his brother Donnchadh Bacagh.
However, Art O'Rourke's brother, Lochlainn Ó Ruairc, was declared "King of East Breifne O'Rourke" and the kingdom was again divided.
Donnchadh Bacagh died in 1445 and his nephew Donnchadh, the first of the Carha line, was elected to take his place and ruled until his death in 1449.
He was succeeded by his cousin Tigernan óg.
The two kingdoms were at war until 1458 when East Breifne O'Rourke was invaded by the Maguires of Fermanagh, Lochlainn Ó Ruairc, now 80 years old, was defeated and the kingship of East Breifne O'Rourke was dissolved.
Tigernán óg became king of a united West Breifne.


Third 1468–1476
Following the death of King Tigernán óg in 1468, kingship was again in dispute, this time between Domnall, Tigernán óg's brother, and Donnchadh losc, Tigernán óg's uncle.
Domnall was supported by the O'Rourkes of Dromahair and Ruadh O'Donnell, the Lord of Tír Chonaill.
Donnchadh losc received support from the O'Rourkes of Carha as well as the people of Carbury and the Clann-Donough.
In 1470, Domnall and O'Donnell led an army to "Cruachan", the traditional inauguration site of kings, in an attempt to inaugurate Domnall, however, they were stopped at Ballyconnell by the O'Reilly.
This dispute caused infighting within West Breifne and left a deepened rivalry between the O'Rourkes of Dromahair and the O'Rourkes of Carha.
The dispute ended in a victory for the O'Rourkes of Carha and their allies, who elected King Feidhlimidh mac Donnchadha in 1476.
He ruled from his stronghold of Castle Carha for 24 contentious years.


Fourth 1528–1536

In 1488, Eóghan, son of Tigernán óg (1449–1468), killed King Feidhlimidh mac Donnchadha's son, also called Eoghan.
Following the death of Feidhlimidh mac Donnchadha in 1500, Eóghan became king.
After Eóghan's death in 1528, Feidhlimidh, another son of King Feidhlimidh mac Donnchadha, claimed the throne and ruled from Castle Carha, in contention with Brian Ballach, son of Eóghan.
In 1536 Brian Ballach laid siege to Caste Carha and demolished it, re-establishing Dromahair's dominion over the entire kingdom.
Feidhlimidh was deposed and died that same year as a prisoner of Brian Ballach.


Resolution
The rivalry between these branches ultimately ended in victory for the O’Rourkes of Dromahair and a return to stability in the succession of kings in the 1530s.
Following the defeat of Lochlainn Ó Ruairc of Carrigallen in 1458 and the dissolution of his kingdom, the Carrigallen O’Rourkes ceased to rule over Breifne ever again.
The O’Rourkes of Carha were wholly crushed by Dromahair in 1536 when Brian Ballach consolidated power over the entire kingdom.
These regional conflicts over succession never re-emerged following this due to the changing political landscape in Ireland, as English influence grew in the latter half of the 16th century and the clans united to fight against their encroachments.
Following a period of relative calm, a brief power struggle between the sons of Brian Ballach ensued in the 1560s.
Between 1564 and 1566 both Aodh Gallda and Aodh Buidhe were murdered by groups intent on getting Brian na Murtha crowned king.
According to the annals, Aodh Gallda was murdered in Leitrim "by his own people".
The murder of Aodh Buidhe was carried out by the vassals of Tyrconnell in present-day County Sligo, as Lord Manus O'Donnell's daughter was Brian na Murtha's mother.
Following Aodh Buidhe's death, Brian na Murtha was elected king (or lord) of West Breifne in 1566.


Late history


Presidency of Connaught

The expansion of English power in Ireland arrived in West Breifne when Brian Ballach entered an agreement with the English in 1542.
Under the terms of this agreement, the O'Rourke king was to keep his authority and traditional rights over the other clans of West Breifne, the sitting O'Rourke king was also to be granted the peerage title "Viscount Dromahaire" and pay a tribute to the crown, however, the terms of this treaty were never realized as the English failed to uphold them.
Lord Deputy John Perrot's unilateral declaration of the legal establishment of County Leitrim in 1565 heralded the first breach of this treaty.
After coming to power, Brian na Múrtha Ó Ruairc was knighted by the English in 1567, but came into conflict with them due to the pernicious expansion of their authorities in Ireland.
In 1569 West Breifne was subsumed into the Presidency of Connaught, an English government jurisdiction.
This governorate was not recognised by the kings and chiefs of Connacht and the first Lord President of Connaught, Sir Edward Fitton, wielded virtually no power over the area.
Gradually, many of the Irish kings began to tentatively work with the English (often through coercion), including Brian na Múrtha, who agreed to submit to the first composition of Connacht in 1576.
These later submissions bore no resemblance to those agreed by Brian Ballach.
Under the 1576 agreement, the king of West Breifne was to answer to the Presidency-appointed High Sheriff of Leitrim, was denied the authority to rule over the other clans and, most crucially, was not allowed to maintain gallowglass.
Nicholas Malby, second Lord President of Connaught, and Brian na Múrtha had a strained relationship.
Malby disparagingly referred to Brian na Múrtha as "a nobody....undeserving of his reputation" and remarked that he was "the proudest man this day living on the earth".
Upon receiving reports that West Breifne was harbouring coyners and mercenaries, Malby ordered one of his officers to attack the kingdom in April 1578.
They captured Leitrim castle, looted it and killed its occupants.
This was the first time Tudor soldiers attacked West Breifne and was more about sending a message to Ó Ruairc that his kingdom was not impervious to English power than about tackling coyners.
Following the attack, Ó Ruairc sent his son Brian Óg na Samhtach to Dublin to complain on his behalf to Lord Deputy Henry Sidney of harassment by Malby and the Presidency.
With Ó Ruairc humbled, Malby agreed to return Leitrim castle to him.
In turn, lands within Connaught were attacked by Ó Ruairc in 1580, illustrating the weakness of the agreement, which collapsed following Malby's death in 1581.
Ó Ruairc now viewed both the Lord President of Connaught and the Lord Deputy of Ireland as hostile and from 1578 onwards he ordered the systematic destruction of several castles across the kingdom, including those at Leitrim, Dromahair and Ducarrick out of fear that the English would occupy them.
As part of the policy of surrender and regrant, Ó Ruairc surrendered his lordship on 2 June 1585 at the parliament in Dublin but was never re-granted lordship of County Leitrim, which took its present boundaries in 1583.
He was a signatory of the Second Composition of Connaught in 1585, but resisted the appointment of a High Sheriff of Leitrim, and refused to pay rent on large tracts of land.
He regarded his agreements with the presidency as non-binding and his relationship with England remained tense.
As such, West Breifne existed in a state of semi-autonomy, as both its king and the English regularly signed agreements and failed to live up to those agreements.
Brian na Múrtha was particularly weary of the implementation of English Law over Brehon Law in West Breifne as this would disqualify his favoured son, Brian Óg na Samhtach, an illegitimate child by Annably O’Crean, wife of a Sligo merchant, from inheriting his title.
Under English Law, it would pass to his eldest legitimate son, Tadhg O’Rourke, who was only 8 years old in 1585 and living with his mother Mary Bourke, sister of the Earl of Clanricarde and Brian na Murtha's estranged lawful wife.
The already bad relations between Brian na Múrtha and the presidency worsened during the rule of Lord President Sir Richard Bingham.
Bingham and Ó Ruairc harboured a deep resentment of one another.
Ó Ruairc, who Bingham referred to as a "proud beggar" commanded his forces to attack those of the presidency to halt their excursions into West Breifne, which had become commonplace by this stage, and to end Bingham's incessant harassment of his countrymen.
During the Anglo-Spanish War (1585–1604), Brian na Múrtha assisted at least eighty survivors of the Spanish Armada shipwreck off the County Sligo coast to depart the country in the winter of 1588.
Among the survivors was Captain Francisco de Cuellar, who kept a detailed account of the events and was hosted in Ó Ruairc's castle at Lough Gill.
His aid to the Spanish would later be used against him in his trial for high treason.
In peace talks in 1589, following West Breifne's brief war against the Presidency in April of that year, Ó Ruairc did accept the terms of a crown tribute, but resisted the new composition terms of 1585 and refused to allow the formation of a crown administration in the new County Leitrim.
Instead of submitting to the presidency's authority, he sought what effectively amounted to full autonomy from the Kingdom of Ireland in Dublin.
However, in the wake of the Spanish landings in Ireland, and due to West Breifne's strategic location between Connacht and Ulster and its pre-existing reputation as a rebellious kingdom, Lord Deputy William Fitzwilliam – who was already aggressively trying to curb the powers of the Gaelic leadership, even those who had sworn loyalty to the crown – commanded Bingham to invade West Breifne.
Bingham and his ally Donogh O'Brien, 4th Earl of Thomond, invaded the territory in January 1590 and had forced Ó Ruairc to flee by March.


Lords in exile
He was given refuge by Eoghan Óg, Chief of Mac Suibhne na d’Tuath, and stayed in his castle on the western shores of Tyrconnell for a year.
He travelled to Scotland in February 1591 bearing gifts (including four Irish Wolfhounds), in anticipation of a meeting with King James VI, seeking to raise an army of mercenaries and retake his kingdom.
In consultation with the English ambassador, King James VI denied him an audience and was pressured by Queen Elizabeth I to arrest him and deliver him to England, citing the agreements made in the Treaty of Berwick.
After much debate and controversy, Ó Ruairc was arrested in Glasgow on 3 April 1591 and delivered into English custody.
He was kept at the Tower of London and was put on trial and asked to pledge to the crown, accepting all prior agreements, and to denounce his Catholic faith.
In response, he refused to recognise the authority of the court or Elizabeth and did not plead mercy.
On charges that he failed to show proper "reverence" to the Queen when he allegedly dragged a portrait of her through the mud and then tore it apart,  he responded that there was "a great difference between images of your Queen and those of saints".
He was hanged, drawn and quartered for high treason on 3 November 1591.

News of Brian na Múrtha's death was met with shock back in Ireland, the annals describing it as "one of the mournful stories of the Irish".
Brian Óg na Samhtach O'Rourke, his son and chief lieutenant during the war against Connaught, was also in exile following Bingham's occupation of West Breifne.
The other clans in the kingdom who had fought with Brian na Murtha unconditionally surrendered to Bingham in Athlone shortly after his exile, leaving Brian Óg with little support.
Bingham described O’Rourke and his remaining followers as "80 beggarly traitors".
He was however, supported by the O’Donnells and Maguires in neighbouring Tyrconnell, where he was living in exile and, with the tacit support of Tyrconnell, carrying out guerilla attacks on West Breifne from 1590 to 1592.
On 3 April 1592, he wrote to the Privy Council of Ireland unsuccessfully pleading with them to pardon him of any wrongdoing during the war in 1589, stating "I did nothing but what my father advised or commanded me to do".
The Gaelic lords of Ulster; Hugh O’Donnell, Hugh Maguire and later Hugh O’Neill, arguably the most powerful in all of Ireland, were forming something of a makeshift defensive alliance at this time, laying the foundations for the Alliance of Irish Clans which fought in the Nine Years' War.
They saw Lord Deputy Fitzwilliam's execution of Lord MacMahon and the division of his kingdom (modern-day County Monaghan) into nine parts – amongst eight "loyal" clans and the Barony of Farney which was given to the Earl of Essex – and now the deputy's occupation of West Breifne, as a step too far.
The expansionist forces of Fitzwilliam now extended the entire southern border of their kingdoms from Leitrim to Louth – the Tudor Conquest had reached Ulster.
Throughout 1591 and 1592, Fitzwilliam and Bingham had drawn up plans for the full annexation of West Breifne into the control of the Kingdom of Ireland, but were forced to abandon these plans and withdraw due to the volatility of the region.
This allowed Brian Óg to return to the kingdom and stake his claim as king.
Edmund McGuaran, a prominent Bishop from Tullyhaw in Breifne territory was instrumental in the formation of the Irish alliance.
He spent much of the 1580s in Madrid, persuading King Philip II of Spain to support the Gaelic kingdoms militarily, framing the conflict between them and England as a defence of Catholicism.
O’Neill, O’Donnell and O’Rourke would all pledge their allegiance to the Spanish king in 1595.
O’Rourke promised to be "a most faithful and obedient servant" of Philip II.
Were it not for England's desperation to see peace return to Ireland following the war, this would have surely seen them executed for treason.
McGuaran travelled to Rome and was made Archbishop of Armagh, Primate of All Ireland in July 1587 before returning to Ireland by 1592.


West Breifne during the Nine Years' War


Gaelic success 1593–1597
Sir George Bingham, brother of Richard and High Sheriff of Sligo based in Ballymote, and Brian Óg O’Rourke carried out the first acts of what was to become the Nine Years' War.
George Bingham led an expedition into West Breifne and seized O’Rourke's milch cows in lieu of unpaid rent.
O’Rourke responded by hiring an army of mercenaries from Tyrconnell, Tyrone and Fermanagh, and set out with 1,100 men to Sligo in May 1593 and "there was little of that country which he did not plunder" – razing 13 villages and ransacking Ballymote itself.
This was quickly followed by another excursion into Connaught, this time by Hugh Maguire who routed Sir Richard Bingham's forces near Tulsk, County Roscommon.
In the wake of these two consecutive defeats in May and June, Fitzwilliam offered Maguire and O’Rourke a white peace if Maguire disbanded the army he had assembled.
His acceptance of this became the first of a number of ceasefires that characterized the Nine Years' War, where both England and the Irish lords had no intention of making peace but rather used the time to recover and regroup forces.
In September Maguire restarted his campaign and raided Monaghan, but by February 1594 Hugh Maguire, Brian Óg's primary patron, had lost Enniskillen and was on the brink of defeat.
The possibility of Maguire's collapse, leaving the English on his doorstep, prompted Hugh Roe O’Donnell to intervene and by June 1594 the tide of war had turned again, they had retaken Enniskillen and soundly defeated the English army at Bel-Atha-na-mBriosgaidh, forcing them to retreat over the Arney River back into Cavan.
Brian Óg himself spent 1594 in West Breifne and the northwest of Ireland, writing letters to other lords trying to convince them to join the war against England.
By 1595 O’Donnell was firmly in control of West Breifne.
O’Rourke, although allied to him, was completely dependent upon him.
The kingdom was devastated after over a decade of intermittent war and O’Rourke was unable to raise soldiers himself and was given little of the spoils of war that O’Donnell and O’Neill had reaped.
Many of the clans of West Breifne who had sworn loyalty to the English allied themselves with O’Donnell.
The kingdom was frequently used as the route through which the Irish forces would travel to raid Connaught, before being used as a staging ground by O’Donnell to attack Annaly, Longford and Cavan.
In June 1595 Sligo Castle fell to O’Donnell and Sir George Bingham was killed.
By 1596 West Breifne was part of what Richard Bingham termed "O’Donnell's Commonwealth" which, along with Tyrconnell itself, now included present-day counties Leitrim, Sligo, Mayo and Northern Roscommon – all territories that were firmly under Bingham's control just 3 years prior.


Truce of 1597–1598
Bingham was relieved of his command and replaced by Sir Conyers Clifford in 1597, by which time O’Donnell had completely pushed the English out of Connacht.
Despite early setbacks, by October 1597 the English were back in control of Connacht, due to the changing allegiance of the O’Conors of Sligo and the Burkes of Galway who turned on O’Donnell's allied lords in Connacht and forced them to retreat.
This success was a result of Clifford's conciliatory approach to the Irish lords, favouring negotiation over conflict.
In a letter to William Cecil, Chief Advisor of Queen Elizabeth, Clifford declared that all of Connacht was pacified, save Brian Óg O’Rourke, who Clifford was trying to win over to the English side.
The war had quieted down because of a truce signed between the English and rebel Irish lords in October 1597 that was set to expire in June 1598.
In November 1597 Brian Óg, in a letter to Clifford, wrote that he would capitulate if the English were willing to guarantee the return of all of his father's lands and recognize him, and not his half-brother Tadhg, as the legitimate heir under English Law and compromise on reduced taxes on those lands.
Up until now, any English assurances to O’Rourke were meaningless, as he knew they had no power to protect him from O’Donnell were he to switch allegiance.
Upon receiving this offer Clifford immediately wrote to Cecil asking him to grant all of these requests.
In December, Clifford was granted full authority to make peace with O’Rourke "as soon as possible" and "assure him his lands".
In February 1598, O’Rourke, accompanied by thirty West Breifne nobles, travelled to Boyle and submitted to Clifford, handing over the letters he had received from Philip II of Spain as a sign of his allegiance.
O’Rourke's fourteen demands, all of which were granted by Queen Elizabeth, included the stationing of English soldiers in his territory under his control to protect him from O’Neill and O’Donnell, a pardon for him and all his followers, a guarantee that he could not be charged or arrested by anyone, except on the orders of the Queen herself, and assurance that he would be given a pension to live on should O’Donnell or O’Neill seize his lands in retaliation.
For his part, O’Rourke was tasked with delivering pledges of loyalty to the crown from all the major clans of West Breifne within twenty days.
The treaty was an immense victory for O’Rourke.
In contrast to the situation 3 years earlier, the once desolate kingdom of West Breifne was now more prosperous than anywhere in Connacht, having recovered from the devastation wrought by Bingham and had been relatively untouched by the war in the last four years.


Resumption of hostilities

The agreement was not to last and West Breifne switched allegiance back to the Irish Alliance shortly before the expiration of the ceasefire on 7 June 1598.
This betrayal of the English was a pragmatic choice as O'Rourke felt Clifford could not deliver on his promises.
Firstly, he feared their weakness in the face of Tyrone and Tyrconnell, the latter of which was hosting his brother Tadhg and would surely make him king over Brian Óg in the event of a war.
Lord Chancellor Adam Loftus had denied Clifford's request to provide O'Rourke with a garrison of 1,200 men.
Secondly, in spite of the agreement that had been reached, O'Rourke wrote to Clifford stating he had discovered that Thomas Butler, Earl of Ormonde, had assured Mary Bourke (Tadhg's mother) that he would support Tadhg's claim as king of West Breifne.
Clifford blamed both men for O'Rourke's defection back to the rebels.
Brian Óg's fears proved correct as by early 1599, the rebel Irish lords were in complete control of Ulster and Connacht and raiding as far south as historic Thomond, before occupying Munster and most of Leinster the following year.
The war was also placing a huge financial burden on England and by the war's end the English exchequer was near bankruptcy, having spent almost £2 million.
West Breifne's most famous contribution of the war came at The Battle of Curlew Pass.
A substantial English force some 2,000-2,500 strong led by Sir Conyers Clifford was travelling north only to find that O’Rourke and 400 of his men had barricaded the pass and were guarding it on either side.
O’Rourke’s forces, along with those of Hugh O’Donnell, who did not take part in the battle, decisively defeated the English who were forced to retreat.
Losses were minimal for the Irish and estimated to be around 500, but possibly as high as 1,400 for the English.
Clifford was left mortally wounded and Brian Óg ordered his head to be cut off and sent to O'Donnell, who in turn sent it to the besieged O'Conors in Sligo as a message that no English help was coming.
O'Conor surrendered shortly afterwards.
Clifford's body was honourably buried at the monastery in Lough Key and his "tragic death....was much lamented" by the Irish lords, as the man had "never told them a falsehood".
O’Rourke and O’Donnell were not on good terms at this time.
Brian Óg's rival to the kingship, Tadhg, had married O’Donnell's sister Mary and was staying with her in Tyrconnell.
Coeval correspondence between the English command mentions multiple disagreements between Brian Óg and Hugh Roe.
Despite this tension, their alliance persisted for the duration of the war.


Fall of the alliance 1600–1603

By late 1600 the tide of war had turned against the Irish Alliance.
The English stepped up their campaign, stationing 18,000 soldiers in Ireland on top of the thousands of Irish infantry already at their disposal, and had wrested more Irish lords from O’Neill and O’Donnell, most notably Niall Garbh, who betrayed the alliance and allowed the forces of Henry Docwra to land at Lough Foyle.
The new commander of the English forces in Ireland Charles Blount, 8th Baron Mountjoy, employed a scorched earth policy which hit the Irish civilian and military population hard.
Clandeboye, the primary breadbasket of the Ulster allies, was invaded and had its crops burnt, livestock slaughtered and villages torched, leading to a famine in Ulster which took the lives of 60,000 people in 1602–03.
Docwra meanwhile set up a series of fortifications along the River Foyle, cutting access between Tyrone and Tyrconnell.
In the context of West Breifne they plotted to exploit the tension between Tadhg and Brian Óg O’Rourke.
In January 1601 Tadhg O’Rourke was given 800 men by O’Donnell to revive the rebellion in Munster, his campaign there was a disaster and he returned to Ulster in the summer having lost 500 men.
Upon his return it was announced that the brothers had reconciled.
However, Brian Óg was to travel south with O’Donnell in December to take part in the ill-fated Battle of Kinsale and while Brian Óg was away, Tadhg had defected to the English and claimed the kingship of West Breifne for himself with the support of his mother's family the Burkes of Clanricarde.
Hugh Roe left Ireland for Spain following his defeat at Kinsale, leaving Rory O'Donnell, 1st Earl of Tyrconnell in charge of Tyrconnell.
The English plan of bringing Irish lordships onto their side, thus dividing the alliance, had largely succeeded across the island and Brian Óg was forced to return to West Breifne and restate his authority as king by force.
After ousting Tadhg, Brian Óg was called upon by Rory O'Donnell to assist him and provide him with soldiers in early 1602 but O'Rourke refused and remained in West Breifne to "protect his people".
The Alliance of Irish clans that was on the cusp of victory just one year earlier had disintegrated.
By the end of June 1602, Mountjoy was writing triumphant letters to Treasurer George Carey from Tyrone's capital Dungannon.
By January 1603 Brian Óg, in a turn of events for the once exiled lord, now harboured the ousted lords Maguire, O’Sullivan and Tyrrell within his kingdom.
They wished to regroup and join up with the remaining forces of Hugh O’Neill but unbeknownst to them O’Neill had already left for Mellifont to surrender.
West Breifne was now the only Irish kingdom that had not yet surrendered.
Brian Óg continued the revolt knowing that his legitimate, well-connected, loyalist half-brother Tadhg would receive his lands were he to surrender now, but the odds were stacked impossibly against him.
At the end of March 1603, the invasion of West Breifne began.
A force of 3,000 men led by Tadhg, the now-loyalist Rory O’Donnell and Henry Folliott, were prevented from crossing the River Shannon for twelve days by O'Rourke's entrenched forces.
Eventually, an English garrison broke through their defences and fortified themselves in northern Leitrim at a church in Black Pig's Dyke.
O'Rourke and forces loyal to him were holed up in their keeps as the countryside of West Breifne was ravaged by attacks.
On 25 April 1603, Mountjoy reported that Brian Óg had been toppled, forced into the forests like "a wood kerne".
West Breifne's resistance was ultimately broken and Brian Óg fled.
The ousted Brian Óg again sought to strike a deal with the English allowing him to keep his lands but this was flatly refused.
Finally, in September 1603, King James I granted Sir Tadhg O’Rourke "the country or lordship of Breny Ui Ruairc and Muinter Eoluis".
On 28 January 1604 Brian Óg died of fever in exile in Galway and was buried in the Friary of Ross Errilly.


Aftermath


Decline

After defeat in the Nine Years' War, the total implementation of English Law across Ireland was inevitable and the Gaelic political order collapsed.
Many O'Rourke nobles left for mainland Europe and the clans throughout Ireland went into a steady decline culminating in The Flight of the Earls in 1607.
The clans within West Breifne were granted land and assurances of their rights to pass on that land to their eldest son under English law in exchange for pledging loyalty to the Crown, circumventing the authority of the ruling O’Rourke dynasty – the same form of divide and rule that was first adopted by the English government in Ireland following their occupation of MacMahon territory in County Monaghan in 1590.
Each of these clans held only modest estates and could not properly threaten English authority or raise armies and amass wealth through taxation like the larger Gaelic kingdoms could.
The O’Rourke's had been relegated to large landowners within County Leitrim, with no official authority over the other clans and a vastly reduced tax base, land area and population.
The kingdom was effectively over.
In late 1605, Sir Tadhg O’Rourke suddenly fell terminally ill and died aged 28, rumours of his poisoning abound – especially given the extraordinary circumstances that would lead to the dispossession of his sons and the subsequent Plantation of Leitrim.
Sir Tadhg had two sons, Brian and Aedh.
Brian was to inherit his father's title and lands but, as he was only 6 years old at the time, his father's cousin, the 4th Earl of Clanricarde, was given wardship of the boys on 11 February 1606.
Brian and his brother Aedh were to fall victim to the plotting of Sir John Davies, the Attorney-General for Ireland, who set about undoing the "distasteful settlements" reached with the native Irish lords in the Treaty of Mellifont through legal means.
His opportunity arose when questions over the legitimacy of Brian and Aedh were raised as their mother,  Mary, was twice divorced before her marriage to Tadhg.
If these divorces were not recognised by English Law it was possible to revoke the patent of the O’Rourke children.
Lord Deputy Sir Arthur Chichester was anxious to pacify the wilderness of O’Rourke's country which was a "den of outlaws and malefactors" where "no Englishmen dwell".
Wealthy speculators were equally as anxious to open County Leitrim up to plantations.
With their power over Ireland firmly established, many within the English government and legal system began a covert effort to dispossess the Irish heirs of rebellious lords – such as those who took part in the Nine Years' War – and pass their land on to English and Scottish Protestant settlers.
Lord Clanricarde protested their machinations, arguing that no moves to dispossess Brian should be made until he turns twenty-one.
In November 1616, Brian O’Rourke was ordered to England by King James I.
As a knight of the English realm, James felt O’Rourke should receive an English education in Oxford University, and Lord Clanricarde was to pay for his tuition.
In November 1618, while Brian was still in college and still the legal heir, the English government in Ireland, led by Sir Oliver St.
John, were surveying and "mapping" County Leitrim for plantation.
Following an altercation in Oxford on St.
Patrick’s Day in March 1619, O’Rourke was arrested and charged with battery.
He was ordered to pay an unprecedented £250 each to the three claimants.
Despite being known personally to James I and despite Clanricarde agreeing to pay the court's recommended settlement of £50 to each claimant followed by another £50 within a year of O’Rourke's release, the claimants refused and he remained in prison at Gatehouse.
Predictably, later that year, a jury found that Mary O’Donnell's divorce of her first husband Donal O’Cahan was void, therefore her marriage to Tadhg was not recognised and their two sons, Brian and Aedh, were declared illegitimate.


Plantations of Leitrim

Brian was moved to the Tower of London on unspecified charges and his situation was made worse by renewed tensions between England and Spain, who would go to war in 1625.
The O’Rourke nobles who fled to Spain and were fighting in the Irish Regiment as well as West Breifne's history of aiding the Spanish in Ireland was emphasized by those who benefitted from O’Rourke's downfall and wished to see him remain incarcerated.
Lord Justice Sir William Parsons travelled to London in February 1621 to convince the 1st Marquess of Buckingham (later created, in 1623, the 1st Duke of Buckingham), the King's favourite, to support the foundation of a new agency, the Irish Court of Wards, which would pave the way for new plantations in Ireland.
By supporting these plantations, Lord Buckingham, as he then was, could ensure that he would benefit handsomely.
With no "legitimate" heirs and the remaining O’Rourke nobles in County Leitrim disassociating themselves from Brian in exchange for the security of their own lands, the plantations officially began in August 1621.
Within a few weeks County Leitrim's approximately 400,000 acres had been divided.
Half of the county (50 grants) was given to Protestant British settlers and the other half (151 grants) to the natives in a complete restructuring of the land.
Brian's brother Aedh was also placed in the spotlight.
Aedh was living with his mother and her fifth husband in County Mayo, but also intermittently in County Leitrim.
In June 1624, the 1st Viscount Falkland, the then Lord Deputy of Ireland, encouraged Aedh to travel to Dublin to discuss the legal situation regarding his inheritance.
Although Aedh had been officially declared illegitimate by the English Crown, Lord Falkland feared that in the event of an invasion by Spain and a rebellion by Aedh O’Rourke, he would be "exceedingly followed by the Irish".
Conscious of his brother's situation, he initially declined.
He arrived in Dublin in May 1626 and impressed both Lord Falkland and the Privy Council of Ireland.
Falkland sent him, along with his cousin Con O’Donnell, heir of Tyrconnell, to London, confident that they could be convinced to relinquish their claims.
At Hampton Court, Aedh refused to give up his claim to his father's lands in the Barony of Drumahaire, County Leitrim, which had already been settled by British plantation owners and was jailed.
He would have met the same fate as his brother were it not for his cousin Mary Stuart O'Donnell, a dissident Irish Catholic living in England, who orchestrated his escape.
With her help, Aedh fled to Flanders and joined the Spanish army.
Brian meanwhile continued to languish in prison, writing to King Charles I and other English officials, petitioning them for a speedy trial so he could face his accusers, secure his freedom and recover his land.
Ignorant of what had transpired in County Leitrim in his absence, he also wrote to Buckingham, the effective chief minister, who had been given 4,500 acres of O’Rourke's estate, pleading for a trial which he never received.
He died in the Tower of London in December 1641, having spent 22 of his 42-year life in prison.
The last legacy of the Dromahair O’Rourke lords during the plantations was the land allocated to their widows.
Mary O’Donnell, mother of Brian and Aedh and widow of King Tadhg (1603–1605) was granted 1,600 acres and Mary Maguire, widow of King Brian Óg (1591–1603) was granted 700.
Tiernan, grandson of King Feidhlimidh (1528–1536), the last of the Carha line, was granted land in the Barony of Rosclogher in 1622 and in 1629 Shane Óg, descendant of the Carrigallen O'Rourkes, received 1,800 acres in Carrigallen.
Three other natives of former West Breifne; Elizabeth Duff, Catherine Glanchy and Mary Crofton were granted 4,000 acres between them.
The largest landowner was Scottish noble Sir Frederick Hamilton, who founded Manorhamilton on the banks of the Owenbeg River.
He received 6,500 acres but would later grow this to over 18,000 acres.
Many stately homes and large castles, such as Parke's Castle, Manorhamilton Castle and Lough Rynn Castle, were built by British Protestant settlers during the plantations.
By 1641, 63.5% of County Leitrim was owned by Protestants and 31.1% was owned by Catholics, with 5.3% not surveyed.
Following the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland from 1649 to 1653 and the subsequent Down Survey of 1656–1658, a nationwide survey which measured the land which was to be forfeited by the native Irish, the land held by settlers would increase even further.
By 1670 the land held by Catholics in Leitrim had fallen to 8%, with 86.3% held by Protestants and 5.6% not surveyed.


Clans of West Breifne
A topographical poem written by John Ó Dubhagain and Giolla na naomh Ó Huidhrin in the 14th century outlines the major clans that inhabited the Breifne region (both East and West) at that time.
 Other sources that document the clans within Breifne are Onomasticon Goedelicum, compiled by Edmund Hogan in 1910 and the multitude of references to various clans and their locations that exist in the Irish annals.
This list documents those clans that inhabited West Breifne, which was colloquially referred to as Breifne O'Rourke as they were the overlords of the kingdom, but numerous other clans that held distinct territories were also present.
 

For most of its history, West Breifne's territory contained the Cavan baronies of Tullyhaw and Tullyhunco, as well as a small portion of County Sligo.
Therefore, the clans in these areas were part of the kingdom, but their territories are no longer contained within County Leitrim, which is roughly based on the boundaries West Breifne had when the county was created in 1583.


County Leitrim
Ua/Ó Ruairc (O'Rourke, Rourke, Rorke, Roark, Rork) hereditary kings of West Breifne, descendants of Uí Briúin Bréifne
Mac Raghnaill (Reynolds, MacReynolds, many other variants) chiefs of Muintir Eolais – modern day baronies of Leitrim and Mohill
Mac Conshámha (McKenny, Ford, Keany) originate in Innismagrath in the barony of Dromahair
Mac Cagadháin (MacCogan, McEgan) based at Glenfarne (Clann Fearmaighe) in Dromahair
Mac Dorchadha (MacDarcy, Darcy) chiefs of Cineal Luachain, based in the barony of Mohill.
Mac Flannchadha (MacClancy, Clancy) chiefs of Dartraidhe, whose territory corresponds to the barony of Rosclogher (not to be confused with Dartraighe, County Monaghan)
Ó Maoilmiadhaigh (Mulvey) chiefs of Tellach Cerbhalláin (Moynish) in the barony of Leitrim
Mac Fionnbhair (Gaynor, MacGinver, Finvar, Finnevar) mostly based in County Longford but held lands in southern Leitrim
Mac Maoilliosa (Mallison, Mellows, Mellowes) chiefs of Magh Breacraighe, a border region between Leitrim and Longford
Mac Fergus (Ferguson) originate in Rossinver
Ó Curnín (Courneen, Corneen, Coorneen, Curne, Curran), bards to the O'Rourkes


County Cavan
Mac Tighearnain (McKiernan Clan, McTiernan, MacTiernan, McKiernan) chiefs of Teallach Dunchadha – modern day Tullyhunco
Mac Samhradhain (MacGuaran, McGurran, McGurn, McGovern, Magauran) chiefs of Teallach Eachdhach – modern-day Tullyhaw


County Sligo
Ó Finn (O'Finn, Finn), joint chiefs of Cálraighe, based at Drumlease, County Leitrim and Calry, County Sligo
Ó Cearbhaill (O'Carroll, Carroll, Carrell), joint chiefs of Cálraighe


Kings (Lords) of Breifne O'Rourke
The following is a list of the kings of West Breifne, an Irish kingdom situated in modern County Leitrim.Dromahair in italics denotes post Ualgarg mor kings who ruled from the capital Dromahair before the term "O'Rourkes of Dromahair" was in use.


Notes


References


Bibliography
Rowe, John Gabriel.
The Romance of Irish History.
London, 2013
Casway, Jerrold.
The Last Lords of Leitrim: The Sons of Teige O'Rourke.
Breifne Journal Vol.
VII, 1988.
Falls, Cyril.
Elizabeth's Irish Wars.
Constable, 1996.
Gallogy, Dan.
Brian Oge O'Rourke and the Nine Years War.
Breifne Journal Vol.
II, 1963
Mac Cuarta, Brian.
Plantations of Leitrim 1621-41
Perceval-Maxwell, M.
Outbreak of the Irish Rebellion of 1641 McGill-Queen's University Press, 1994
Welch, Robert Anthony.
The Cold of May Day Monday: An Approach to Irish Literary History Oxford University Press, 2014
Wager, John A.
& Schmid, Susan Walter.
Encyclopedia of Tudor England, Vol.
1 ABC-CLIO, 2012

DJ Homicide
Craig Anthony Bullock (born December 17, 1970), also known by his stage name DJ Homicide, is an American musician, DJ, rapper, singer, record producer and radio personality.
He was the DJ of the rock band Sugar Ray.
DJ Homicide hosts The Blast on SKEE 24/7 on Dash Radio.


Life and career
He was born and raised in Pasadena, California.
Along his shoulders is a tattoo that reads "City Of Roses" (a reference to the town's nickname).
On top of his work with Sugar Ray, Bullock spends a great deal of time as a solo artist, appearing as a featured DJ at nightclubs all across the country.
At these performances he primarily plays mash-ups (both his own and others) as well as songs in their original format.
The genre of his musical library is diverse, but primarily contemporary (1980s—present day).
He has created three full-length promotional CD mixes; Live From Los Scandalous, Homicide's House and LASONIC.
All were released under SKAM Artist records, as well as available for download through his websites.
Bullock was inspired to start DJing after listening to radio station KDAY and was briefly a member of The Alkaholiks.
He joined Sugar Ray after the completion of their debut Lemonade and Brownies.
His friend DJ Lethal worked on the CD but did not want to perform live with the band so he suggested his friend (Homicide).
Bullock went on to join Sugar Ray officially.
Bullock's functions in the band are producing, writing and background vocals.
Most notably he can be heard in the hook of "Every Morning" saying "Shut the door baby, don't say a word." When Sugar Ray performs "Fly" and "Mr.
Bartender (It's So Easy)" Bullock often raps in lieu of Super Cat and Prohoezak.
Bullock improvises sound manipulations and digitally replaces the drum track when Stan Frazier chooses to play acoustic guitar.
Bullock's father died in 2004.
He has a sister (and a nephew).
He has homes in Miami, FL and Los Angeles, CA.
With the band, Bullock has appeared in the films Scooby-Doo and Father's Day and the TV show Las Vegas.
On August 22, 2010, it was announced on Sugar Ray's Twitter page that Bullock had left the band.


References


External links
Official website
Official Sugar Ray
Craig Anthony at SKAM Artist

Jessika Cowart
Jessika Rebecca Macayan Cowart (born October 30, 1999) is a professional footballer who plays as a defender for Vancouver Rise in the Northern Super League.
Born in the United States, she represents the Philippines at international level.


Early life
Cowart had her youth career at Palo Alto Soccer Club and PSV Union.
She also played for the varsity soccer team of Woodside High School in California.


College career
Cowart played collegiate soccer at University of Washington.
She received the 2019 Husky Invitational Tournament Defensive MVP Award playing as a defensive midfielder against the University of North Carolina, University of Portland, and University of New Mexico.
She appeared in 66 matches with 51 starts, including the 2019 NCAA Division I Women's Soccer Tournament.


Club career


MLVA Wolves
In 2019, Cowart played with the MVLA Wolves in the Women's Premier Soccer League.


Çaykur Rizespor
In 2022, Cowart joined Turkish Women's Football Super League club Çaykur Rizespor.
She made her debut for the club in a 3–1 win against Adana İdman Yurdu.
She finished the season with 10 starts in 10 matches for the club, scoring two goals and two assists.


California Storm
After her short stint in the Turkish top flight, Cowart joined Women's Premier Soccer League club California Storm, who later won the 2022 WPSL Championship.


Spartak Subotica
Cowart joined ŽFK Spartak Subotica of the Serbian Women's Super League in August 2022.
She made her debut for the club against Norwegian side SK Brann Kvinner during the first round of the 2022 UEFA Women's Champions League She started in all 12 league games.


IFK Kalmar
In January 2023, Cowart signed with Damallsvenskan club IFK Kalmar.
She started all 17 league games.


Perth Glory
A-League Women side, Perth Glory announced they have signed in Cowart on September 5, 2023.
She made her A-League debut on October 14, 2023, with a 2–0 victory over Western United.
She went on to start all 22 games, playing a total of 1966 minutes, completing 40 interceptions along with 99 clearances and ranking in the league's top ten for passes completed.
Despite re-signing for the 2024–25 A-League Women season in August 2024, two months later the club announced her departure by mutual consent to pursue an opportunity in America.


Vancouver Rise
In February 2025, Cowart signed with Canadian Northern Super League side Vancouver Rise FC.


International career
Cowart is eligible to represent either United States or Philippines at the international level.


Philippines
In June 2022, Cowart was included in the Philippines squad for the national team's training camp in Europe.
The training camp was part of the national team's preparation for the 2022 AFF Women's Championship, held in the Philippines.
Cowart made her debut for the Philippines in a 1–0 friendly loss against Republic of Ireland, coming in as a substitute replacing Dominique Randle in the 67th minute.
She would make five appearances at the 2022 AFF Women's Championship which the Philippines won.
In June 2023, Cowart was selected as part of the 23 player Philippines squad for the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup, which was co-hosted in Australia and New Zealand.
She started and played in three group-stage matches during the tournament, including a historic victory against New Zealand women's national football team.
In 2025, Cowart was part of the Philippines squad which won qualification for the 2026 AFC Women’s Asian Cup.


International goals


Honours
Philippines

AFF Women's Championship: 2022


References


External links
Jessika Cowart at Soccerway

Chaenotheca furfuracea
Chaenotheca furfuracea is a mealy (farinaceous), bright yellow-green leprose pin lichen.
 It is in the family Coniocybaceae.
This distinctive lichen forms vivid yellow-green powdery crusts on tree bark and produces tiny pin-like fruiting bodies up to 2 mm tall, each with a hair-thin stalk topped by a spherical head.
It grows in damp, deeply shaded locations such as tree root crevices and rocky overhangs, particularly in upland areas of Europe where it grows mainly on beeches, oaks, and spruce roots.


Description
Chaenotheca furfuracea forms a loose, powdery (leprose) crust that spreads across bark as a vivid yellow-green stain.
The photobiont—the lichen's algal partner—is a species of Stichococcus, whose tiny green cells sit just below the surface and provide photosynthate.
Rising from the crust are pin-like fruiting bodies up to about 2 mm tall.
Each comprises a hair-fine stalk (roughly one-tenth of a millimetre thick) that is sheathed in a yellow-green, frost-like coating of crystalline pigment called pruina; the stalk appears black where this coating wears away.
At the tip sits a near-spherical head only 0.1–0.2 mm across.
Its outer rim (exciple) is so poorly developed that it is scarcely visible, and the interior spore mass (mazaedium) begins life dusted with the same yellow-green pruina before ageing to a pale brown.
Under the microscope the spore-producing sacs (asci) are irregular in outline and develop in chains rather than singly.
Each ascus releases numerous microscopic ascospores that are spherical, only 2.3–3 μm in diameter, and ornamented with a maze of fine ridges (reticulations) that may look like tiny warts under a light microscope.
The lichen lacks specialised conidiomata—structures that many fungi use for asexual propagation—but does form simple, upright threads (conidiophores) that bud off colourless, ellipsoidal conidia in loose chains.
Chemical spot tests reveal the presence of vulpinic acid, pulvinic acid, and pulvinic dilactone in both the crust and the pruina, compounds that lend the species its characteristic yellow-green hue.


Ecology
The species can be found in European countries like Belgium, Luxembourg, and Switzerland.
The species are growing mostly on beeches and oaks, and on tree roots of spruces.
They also grow on detritus or sand, and in rare cases on fissures of siliceous rocks.
It does better in climates with high humidity and low luminosity.
Chaenotheca furfuracea usually occupies damp, deeply shaded nooks—tucked into crevices between tree roots or on rocky faces beneath overhangs—and is encountered most often in upland areas.



References

Ubatuba (album)
Ubatuba is the eponymous debut album by German jazz saxophonist Ingrid Laubrock's quintet featuring saxophonist Tim Berne, trombonist Ben Gerstein, tuba player Dan Peck and drummer Tom Rainey.
It was recorded in 2014 and released on Firehouse 12.


Reception

The Down Beat review by John Corbett notes "It’s a pleasure to hear Tim Berne’s alto saxophone sounding wonderful in tandem with Laubrock and trombonist Ben Gerstein."
The All About Jazz review by Karl Ackermann states "Ubatuba is an ambitious creation in terms of Laubrock's astoundingly complex writing and in the masterful musicianship from all involved."
In a review for JazzTimes Britt Robson says about Laubrock "Her work in Paradoxical Frog and Anti-House marked her as a force to be reckoned with.
Ubatuba ratifies that reputation with unique, tactile music that pricks the senses as much as it piques the intellect."
The Free Jazz Collective's Dan Sorrells wrote: "Ubatuba rewards careful and repeated listening.
While clearly a vehicle for Laubrock's increasingly adventurous writing, the music provides plenty of leeway for her partners' idiosyncrasies and creativity...
A great late-year entry, and an album that was certainly worth the wait."
Writer Raul Da Gama commented: "the music of Ubatuba seems to go in a circular motion, very slowly, very deliberately, very beautifully...
Details in the writing are scintillating and full of surprise...
[It] is a logical adaptation of all of her prior work congealing in an original score that brightens the future of the woodwind instrument in terms of tone colour, dynamic, timbre and musical scope."


Track listing
All compositions by Ingrid Laubrock.

"Any Breathing Organism" – 10:27
"Homo Diluvii" – 5:55
"Hiccups" – 13:23
"Hall of Mirrors" – 4:15
"Any Many" – 6:26
"Hypnic Jerk" – 15:41


Personnel
Ingrid Laubrock – tenor sax, alto sax
Tim Berne – alto sax
Ben Gerstein – trombone
Dan Peck – tuba
Tom Rainey – drums


References

Davis–Besse Nuclear Power Station
Davis–Besse Nuclear Power Station is an 894 megawatt (MW) nuclear power plant, located northeast of Oak Harbor, Ohio, United States.
It has a single pressurized water reactor.
Davis–Besse is operated by Vistra Corp.
Throughout its operation, Davis–Besse has been the site of several safety incidents that affected the plant's operation.
According to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), Davis–Besse has been the source of two of the top five most dangerous nuclear incidents in the United States since 1979.
The most severe occurring in March 2002, when maintenance workers discovered corrosion had eaten a football-sized hole into the reactor vessel head.
The NRC kept Davis–Besse shut down until March 2004, so that FirstEnergy was able to perform all the necessary maintenance for safe operations.
The NRC imposed an over $5 million fine, its largest fine ever to a nuclear power plant, against FirstEnergy for the actions that led to the corrosion.
The company paid an additional $28 million in fines under a settlement with the United States Department of Justice (DOJ).
Davis–Besse was expected to close in 2020 as it is no longer profitable to run when competing against natural gas plants.
Plans were updated indicating possible shut down by May 31, 2020.
However, Ohio House Bill 6 was signed into law in July 2019 which added a fee to residents' utility bills that funded subsidies of $150 million per year to Davis–Besse and the Perry Nuclear Generating Station to keep both plants operational.
The bill was alleged to be part of the Ohio nuclear bribery scandal revealed by the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) in July 2020.


Location and history
The power station is located on the southwest shore of Lake Erie about 10 miles (16 km) north of Oak Harbor, Ohio and is on the north side of Highway 2 just east of Highway 19 on a 954-acre (386 ha) site in the Carroll Township.
The plant only utilizes 221 acres (89 ha), with 733 acres (297 ha) devoted to the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge.
The entrance to the Magee Marsh Wildlife Area is approximately 5 miles east of the power station.
The official name according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration is the Davis–Besse Nuclear Generating Station.
 It is the 57th commercial power reactor to commence building in the United States of America (construction began on September 1, 1970) and the 50th to come on-line July 31, 1978.
The plant was originally jointly owned by Cleveland Electric Illuminating (CEI) and Toledo Edison (TE) and was named for former TE Chairman John K.
Davis and former CEI Chairman Ralph M.
Besse.

Unit One is an 879 MWe pressurized water reactor supplied by Babcock & Wilcox.
 The reactor was shut down from 2002 until early 2004 for safety repairs and upgrades.
In 2012 the reactor supplied 7101.700 GWh of electricity.
In 1973, two more reactors were also ordered from Babcock & Wilcox.
However, construction on Units Two and Three never commenced, and these two units were officially canceled in 1981.


Electricity production


Incident history


1977 first stuck-open pilot-operated relief valve
On September 24, 1977, the relief valve for the reactor pressurizer failed to close when the reactor, running at only 9% power, shut down because of a disruption in the feedwater system.
This incident later became a precursor to the Three Mile Island accident, in which a pilot-operated relief valve also became stuck open, leaking thousands of gallons of coolant water into the basement of the reactor building.


1985 loss of feedwater event
On June 9, 1985, the main feedwater pumps, used to supply water to the reactor steam generators, shut down.
 A control room operator then attempted to start the auxiliary (emergency) feedwater pumps.
 These pumps both tripped on overspeed conditions because of operator error.
 This incident was originally classified an "NRC Unusual Event" (the lowest classification the NRC uses) but it was later determined that it should have been classified a "site area emergency".


1998 tornado
On June 24, 1998, the station was struck by an F2 tornado.
The plant's switchyard was damaged and access to external power was disabled.
The plant's reactor automatically shut down at 8:42 pm and an alert (the next to lowest of four levels of severity) was declared at 9:18 pm.
The plant's emergency diesel generators powered critical facility safety systems until external power could be restored.


2002 reactor head hole

In March 2002, plant staff discovered that the borated water that serves as the reactor coolant had leaked from cracked control rod drive mechanisms directly above the reactor and eaten through more than six inches (150 mm) of the carbon steel reactor pressure vessel head over an area roughly the size of a football (see photo).
 This significant reactor head wastage on the exterior of the reactor vessel head left only 3⁄8 inch (9.5 mm) of stainless steel cladding holding back the high-pressure (~2155 psi, 14.6 MPa) reactor coolant.
 A breach most likely would have resulted in a massive loss-of-coolant accident, in which reactor coolant would have jetted into the reactor's containment building and resulted in emergency safety procedures to protect from core damage or meltdown.
 Because of the location of the reactor head damage, such a jet of reactor coolant might have damaged adjacent control rod drive mechanisms, hampering or preventing reactor shut-down.
 As part of the system reviews following the accident, significant safety issues were identified with other critical plant components, including the following:

the containment sump that allows the reactor coolant to be reclaimed and reinjected into the reactor;
the high pressure injection pumps that would reinject such reclaimed reactor coolant;
the emergency diesel generator system;
the containment air coolers that would remove heat from the containment building;
reactor coolant isolation valves; and
the plant's electrical distribution system.
The resulting corrective operational and system reviews and engineering changes took two years.
 Repairs and upgrades cost $600 million, and the Davis–Besse reactor was restarted in March 2004.
To replace the reactor vessel head, FirstEnergy purchased one from the mothballed Midland Nuclear Power Plant in Midland, Michigan.
The NRC determined that this incident was the fifth-most dangerous nuclear incident in the United States since 1979, and imposed its largest fine ever—more than $5 million—against FirstEnergy for the actions that led to the corrosion.


Criminal prosecutions
In January 2006, First Energy, the owner of Davis–Besse, acknowledged a series of safety violations by former workers, and entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Department of Justice (DOJ).
 The deferred prosecution agreement related to the March 2002 incident.
 The deferment granted by the NRC were based on letters from Davis–Besse engineers stating that previous inspections were adequate.
However, those inspections were not as thorough as the company suggested, as proved by the material deficiency discovered later.
 In any case, because FirstEnergy cooperated with investigators on the matter, they were able to avoid more serious penalties.
The company paid $28 million under a settlement with the Justice Department.
 $23.7 million of that were fines, with an additional $4.3 million to be contributed to various groups, including the National Park Service, the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, Habitat for Humanity, and the University of Toledo as well as to pay some costs related to the federal investigation.
Two former employees and one former contractor were indicted for statements made in multiple documents and one videotape, over several years, for hiding evidence that the reactor pressure vessel was being corroded by boric acid.
 The maximum penalty for the three was 25 years in prison.
 The indictment mentions that other employees also provided false information to inspectors, but does not name them.
In 2007, one of these men was convicted and another acquitted of hiding information from and lying to the NRC.
Another jury trial in 2008 convicted the remaining engineer of similar crimes.


2003 slammer worm computer virus
In January 2003, the plant's private network became infected with the slammer worm, which resulted in a five-hour loss of safety monitoring at the plant.


2008 discovery of tritium leak
The NRC and Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) were notified of a tritium leak accidentally discovered during an unrelated fire inspection on October 22, 2008.
 Preliminary indications suggest radioactive water did not infiltrate groundwater outside plant boundaries.


2010 replacement reactor head problems
During a scheduled refueling outage in 2010, ultrasonic examinations performed on the control rod drive mechanism nozzles penetrating the reactor vessel closure head identified that two of the nozzles inspected did not meet acceptance criteria.
FirstEnergy investigators subsequently found new cracks in 24 of 69 nozzles, including one serious enough to leak boric acid.
 Crack indications required repair prior to returning the vessel head to service.
Control rod drive nozzles were repaired using techniques proven at other nuclear facilities.
The plant resumed operation in 2010.
The existing reactor vessel head was scheduled for replacement in 2011.


2011 shield building cracks
An October 2011 shutdown of the plant for maintenance revealed a 30 foot long hairline crack in the concrete shield building around the containment vessel.


2012 reactor coolant pump seal pinhole leak
On June 6, 2012, an approximately 0.1 gpm pinhole spray leakage was identified from a weld in a seal of the reactor coolant pump during a routine reactor coolant system walkdown inspection.
 The plant entered limited operations, and root cause analysis was undertaken.


2015 steam leak shutdown
On May 9, 2015, a steam leak in the turbine building caused FirstEnergy operators to declare an 'Unusual Event' and shut the reactor down until repairs could be made.
 The plant was brought back online and synchronized with the local power grid 3 days later on May 12 after repairs were completed.


Future

The facility's original nuclear operating license was set to expire on April 22, 2017.
In August 2006, FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company (FENOC) submitted a letter of intent to renew.
The submission date for the application was August 10, 2010.
On December 8, 2015, the NRC granted a 20-year license extension to expire on April 22, 2037.
On March 31, 2018, FirstEnergy Nuclear Operating Company filed for Bankruptcy protection.
Around that time, the company indicated it would close the nuclear plant.
In 2019, Ohio lawmakers debated a $9/MWh subsidy to keep Davis–Besse open.
House Bill 6 was signed into law on July 23, 2019, and FirstEnergy announced it would refuel Davis–Besse and rescind its deactivation notice on July 24, 2019.
It was later learned that the bill itself was a part of a public corruption scheme revealed by the Justice Department in July 2020.
The scheme involved FirstEnergy paying approximately $61 million to the Speaker of the Ohio House of Representatives, Larry Householder, and Matt Borges, Neil Clark, Juan Cespedes and Jeff Longstreth.
 For this, they were supposed to help pass the bill subsidizing the nuclear plant and prevent its repeal.
 Householder was found guilty, removed from the Ohio House and sentenced to 20 years in prison.
 Clark committed suicide.


Seismic risk
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission's estimate of the risk each year of an earthquake intense enough to cause core damage to the reactor at Davis–Besse was 1 in 149,254, according to an NRC study published in August 2010.


Surrounding population
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission defines two emergency planning zones around nuclear power plants: a plume exposure pathway zone with a radius of 10 miles (16 km), concerned primarily with exposure to, and inhalation of, airborne radioactive contamination, and an ingestion pathway zone of about 50 miles (80 km), concerned primarily with ingestion of food and liquid contaminated by radioactivity.
The 2010 U.S.
population within 10 miles (16 km) of Davis–Besse was 18,635, an increase of 14.2 percent in a decade, according to an analysis of U.S.
Census data for msnbc.com.
The 2010 U.S.
population within 50 miles (80 km) was 1,791,856, an increase of 1.4 percent since 2000.
Cities within 50 miles (80 km) include Sandusky, Ohio, 22 miles (35 km); Toledo, Ohio 26 miles (42 km); and Detroit, Michigan, 50 miles (80 km) (distance to the city centers).


See also

Nuclear reactor accidents in the United States
Pilot-operated relief valve


References


External links
Davis–Besse Pressurized Water Reactor Information from the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Union of Concerned Scientists report on Davis–Besse
U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission's "Davis–Besse Lessons Learned Task Force" (with links to the Task Force Report)

Bag tag
Bag tags, also known as baggage tags, baggage checks or luggage tickets, have traditionally been used by bus, train, and airline carriers to route checked luggage to its final destination.
The passenger stub is typically handed to the passenger or attached to the ticket envelope:

 to aid the passenger in identifying their bag among similar bags at the destination baggage carousel;
 as proof—still requested at a few airports—that the passenger is not removing someone else's bag from the baggage reclaim hall; and
 as a means for the passenger and carrier to identify and trace a specific bag that has gone astray and was not delivered at the destination.
The carriers' liability is restricted to published tariffs and international agreements.


History


Invention
The first "separable coupon ticket" was patented by John Michael Lyons of Moncton, New Brunswick, on June 5, 1882.
The ticket showed the issuing station, the destination, and a consecutive number for reference.
The lower half of the ticket was given to the passenger, while the upper half, with a hole at the top, was inserted into a brass sleeve and then attached to the baggage by a strap.

At some point, reinforced paper tags were introduced.
These are designed not to detach as easily as older tags during transport.


Warsaw Convention
The Warsaw Convention of 1929, specifically Article Four, established the criteria for issuing a baggage check or luggage ticket.
This agreement also established limit of liability on checked baggage.


Previous bag tags
Prior to the 1990s, airline bag tags consisted of a paper tag attached with a string.
The tag contained basic information:

Airline/carrier name
Flight number
Baggage tag number (composed of the two-letter airline code and six digits)
Destination airport code
These tags became obsolete because they offered little security and were easy to replicate.


Current bag tags
Current bag tags include a bar code using the Interleaved 2 of 5 symbology.
These bag tags are printed using a thermal or barcode printer on an adhesive thermal paper stock.
This printed strip is then attached to the luggage at check-in, allowing automated sorting of the bags by bar code readers.
There are two ways that bar code baggage tags are read: hand held scanners, and in-line arrays.
In-line arrays are built into the baggage conveyor system and use a 360-degree array of lasers or cameras to read the bar code tags from multiple angles because baggage and the orientation of the bar code tag can shift as the bag travels through the conveyor belt system.
Camera systems are replacing lasers due to their greater ability to read damaged or folded tags.
One of the limitations of this system is that in order to read bar codes from the bottom of the belt, laser or camera arrays are placed below the gap between two sections of conveyor belt.
Due to the frequent build-up of debris and dust on these lower arrays, the rate of successful reads can be low, although the camera systems improve the likelihood of reading tags from this position because of the algorithms used in their software.

Frequently, the "read rate", the percentage of bar code tags successfully read by these arrays, can be as low as 85%.
This means that more than one out of ten bar code baggage tags are not successfully read, and these bags are shunted off for manual reading, resulting in extra labor and delay.
Systems employing cameras typically have better read rates than those using lasers - up to 99.5% in ideal conditions.
For flights departing from an international airport within the European Union, bag tags are issued with green edges.
Passengers are eligible to take these bags through a separate "Blue Channel" (or alternatively the "Green Channel" = "nothing to declare") at Customs if arriving at another EU airport.
Bar codes cannot be automatically scanned without direct sight and undamaged print.
Because of reading problems with poorly printed, obscured, crumpled, scored or otherwise damaged bar codes, some airlines have started using radio-frequency identification (RFID) chips embedded in the tags.
In the US, Harry Reid International Airport has installed an RFID system throughout the airport.
Hong Kong International Airport has also installed an RFID system.
The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is working to standardize RFID bag tags.
In 2013, British Airways began a trial to test re-usable electronic luggage tags featuring electronic paper technology.
The passenger checks in using the British Airways smartphone app, then holds the smartphone close to the tag.
The flight details and barcode are transmitted to the tag using NFC technology.
Because the tag utilises electronic paper, the battery need only power the tag during the transmission of data.
Fast Travel Global Ltd has developed a re-usable electronic luggage tag product called the eTag.
This is also electronic paper-based but is not limited to a single airline.
The passenger will check in using a supported airline's smartphone app and send the relevant flight information to the tag via Bluetooth Low Energy.
Qantas introduced Q Bag Tags in 2011.
Unlike the British Airways tags, they do not feature a screen, which means there is no barcode to scan.
This has limited the use of the tags to domestic flights within Australia on the Qantas network.
The tags were initially given free of charge to members of the Qantas Frequent Flyer program with Silver, Gold or Platinum status.
The tags can also be purchased for A$29.95.
Over the last years, there have been numerous of initiatives to develop electronic bag tags, by both independent technology companies as well as some airlines.
The main benefits of electronic bag tags include self-control and ease-of-use by passengers, time-saving by skipping queues at the airport, improved read rates compared to printed bag tags and, as electronic bag tags are adopted, significant operational cost reduction for the airlines.
The first company to successfully launch has been Rimowa in a partnership with Lufthansa in March, 2016.
The concept of electronic bag tags has been gaining ground following that launch.
On January 9, 2018, Lufthansa introduced a new electronic bag tag to their passengers, BAGTAG.
BAGTAG is the first fully secure operational electronic bag tag that can be attached to any suitcase and has integrated radio-frequency identification technology.


Identification
The first automated baggage sorting systems were developed in the 1980s by Eastern Air Lines at their Miami International Airport hub.
Other airlines soon followed with their own systems, including United Air Lines, TWA, Delta, and American Airlines.
None of these systems were interchangeable.
In some systems, the bar code was used to represent a three-letter destination airport code, and in others it was a two-digit sorting symbol instructing the system at which pier to deliver the bag.
As a result of the bombing of Air India Flight 182 on June 23, 1985, the airline industry, led by IATA, convened the Baggage Security Working Group (BSWG) to change international standards and require passenger baggage reconciliation.
The Chairman of the BSWG, John Vermilye of Eastern Airlines, proposed that the industry adopt the already-proven license plate system.
This concept used a barcode to represent the baggage tag number.
At check-in, this number was associated with the passenger details, including flight number, destination, connection information, and even class of service to indicate priority handling.
Working with Allen Davidson of Litton Industries, with whom Eastern had developed the license plate concept, the BSWG adopted this system as the common industry standard for passenger baggage reconciliation.
Initially the barcode, or license plate, was used to match baggage with passengers, ensuring that only the baggage of passengers who had actually boarded the flight were carried onto the aircraft.
This standard was adopted  by IATA Resolution in 1987.
By 1989, the license plate concept was expanded to become the industry standard for automated baggage sorting as well.
The barcodes were enlarged to facilitate automated reading.
The barcode was shown in two different orientations or in a "T" shape, called the "orthogonal" representation.
The term license plate is the official term used by the IATA, the airlines, and the airports for the ten-digit numeric code on a bag tag issued by a carrier or handling agent at check-in.
The license plate is printed on the carrier tag in barcode form and in human-readable form (as defined in Resolution 740 in the IATA Passenger Services Conference Resolutions Manual, published annually by IATA).
The license plate is the index number linking the Baggage Source Message (BSM), sent by a carrier's departure control system, to the airport's baggage handling system.
This message (BSM) contains the flight details and passenger information.
Each digit in the license plate has a specific meaning.
The automated baggage handling system scans the barcodes on the carrier tags and sorts the bags accordingly.
Both the license plate number and the BSM are essential for automated sorting of baggage.
The human-readable license plate will have either a two-character or a three-digit IATA carrier code.
For example, it may be either "BA728359" or "0125728359." "BA" would be the two-character IATA code for British Airways), and "125" would be the three-digit IATA carrier code.
Nevertheless, the barcode will always be the full ten digits.
The first digit in the ten-digit license plate is not part of the carrier code.
It can be in the range of zero to nine.
Zero is for interline or online tags, one is for fallback tags, and two is for "rush" tags.

Fallback tags are pre-printed or demand-printed tags for use only by the airport's baggage handling system.
These tags are used when there is a problem in communication between the carrier's departure control system and the airport's baggage handling system (as defined in IATA Recommended Practice 1740b).

A "rush" bag is a bag that, either missed its original flight or being a recovered lost luggage, is flying unaccompanied to be united to its owner.
The purpose of numbers in the range of three to nine is not defined by the IATA, but they can be used by each carrier for their own specific needs.
The first digit is commonly used as a million indicator for the normal six-digit tag number.
Besides the license plate number, the tag also has:

Name of Airport of Arrival
Departure Time
IATA airport code of Airport of Arrival
Airline Code and Flight Number
Name of Passenger Identified with the Baggage (Last Name, First Name)


References

Gina Catalino
Gina Catalino (born 1984) is a New York-based folk-pop singer/songwriter.
Two songs from her debut album Swept In Sound, "11:32 PM" and "Here & There", were featured in Showtime's television series The L Word.
Gina has performed live on WNBC's Weekend Today In New York and has packed some New York City's most popular music venues including The Bitter End and Rockwood Music Hall.
Her second record The Morning Shows Up Again was released on March 19, 2012.


Biography
Gina Catalino (born in 1984) is a New Hampshire native singer-songwriter best known for her song, 11:32 PM.
Music from Gina's debut record, Swept In Sound, has been featured in both film and television, most notably the placement of her song 11:32 PM in Showtime's hit series, The L Word.
 Gina has packed the house at some of New York City's most popular music venues, including The Bitter End and The Rockwood Music Hall.
In March 2008, she performed two songs Live on WNBC's Weekend Today Show In New York.
Gina has spent the last few years in New York City writing and recording new material.
After creating nearly forty songs, Gina chose ten for her second record entitled, The Morning Shows Up Again.
For Catalino, The Morning Shows Up Again is a collection of songs that are honest, pure and optimistic.
"Many of the songs have a longing for something but there is a sense that it will all somehow be ok," she explains.
The recording of The Morning Shows Up Again offered new experiences for Gina, including working with Grammy nominated singer Penny Nichols and Staten Island legend Karlus Trapp, both of whom provided backing vocals throughout the record.
The core musicianship of the album is performed by Jordan Perlson on drums, Emilie Cardinaux and Brian Charette on piano, Solomon Dorsey and Jamie Bishop on bass, and Steve Elliot on electric guitar.
Gina's new record, The Morning Shows Up Again, was released on March 19, 2012.
"From song to song, you label her everything from the next Norah Jones, to the newest soul sister, to Ani DiFranco meets Jewel, until you finally settle on somewhere between Fiona Apple and Erykah Badu.
It's all pointless because with each new listen, one comes to terms with the fact that they're listening to Gina Catalino.
A woman whose music spiritually embodies an organically delicious sound juxtaposed with soul-baring lyrics and a commanding voice".
- Robert Aguiar of Toastermag.com


Television
"Here & There", featured in The L Word, Season 5, Episode 2: "Look Out, Here They Come"
"11:32 PM", featured in The L Word, Season 5, Episode 3: "Lady Of The Lake"
On March 29, 2008 Gina was featured on WNBC's Weekend Today In New York television show where she was interviewed and performed two songs live.


Discography
2007 - Swept In Sound
2012 - The Morning Shows Up Again


References
Review/Interview with Robert Aguiar of Toastermag.com
XM Satellite Radio (XM 43) "The Radar Report"
Swept In Sound - Gary Schwind of Antimusic.com
Gina Catalino is 'Swept In Sound' by Jeanne McCartin (Portsmouth Herald)
"Swept up with Gina Catalino" by Orlena Cain of Sugarcain Ent.
2008 Review by Richard J.
Lynch for Kweevak.com
Gina Catalino at The Rockwood Music Hall
Gina Catalino at The Bitter End
markleft.com


External links
Official site

Sugar Creek (Duck River tributary)
Sugar Creek is a stream in Hickman County, Tennessee, United States.
It is a tributary of Duck River.
Sugar Creek was named for the sugar maple trees (Acer saccharum) growing along its banks.


See also
List of rivers of Tennessee


References

East Branch Cupsuptic River
The East Branch Cupsuptic River is a short tributary of the Cupsuptic River in Maine.
It flows about 4 miles (6 km) from its source (45°09′36″N 70°49′52″W) in a cirque between Snow Mountain and Twin Mountains, to its mouth on the Cupsuptic.


See also
List of rivers of Maine


References

"East Branch Cupsuptic River".
Geographic Names Information System.
United States Geological Survey, United States Department of the Interior.
30 September 1980.
Retrieved 2009-10-08.
Maine Streamflow Data from the USGS
Maine Watershed Data From Environmental Protection Agency

George Heineman
Geoffrey Henry "George" Heineman (17 December 1905 – 1970) was an English professional footballer who played in the Football League for Manchester City, Coventry City, Crystal Palace and Clapton Orient as a defender.


Career
Heineman was born in Stafford and began his career with Stafford Rangers.
He moved to Manchester City on 29 October 1928, and made 24 appearances in all competitions for the Sky Blues.
He joined Coventry City in May 1931 and stayed for two seasons.
He scored one goal for Coventry, in a 5–5 draw against Fulham in January 1932.
He signed for Crystal Palace in August 1934.
Over the next season, he made 25 appearances for Palace, without scoring.
In August 1935, he moved on to Clapton Orient, playing in East London for three seasons.
He left in January 1938 to join Wellington Town, and he won the Welsh Cup with them in 1939–40.
Heineman died in 1970 aged 64–65.


References


External links
Heineman at holmesdale.net

1920 in baseball
The following are the baseball events of the year 1920  throughout the world.


Champions
World Series: Cleveland Indians over Brooklyn Robins (5–2)


Statistical leaders

1 National League Triple Crown pitching winner


Major league baseball final standings


American League final standings


National League final standings


Negro league final standings
All Negro leagues standings below are per Seamheads.


Negro National League final standings
This was the first season of organized Negro league baseball.
The first Negro National League would run for the next decade and is considered to be of major league status.
The Chicago American Giants, managed by league founder and former player Rube Foster, won the first league pennant.


East (independent teams) final standings
A loose confederation of teams were gathered in the East to compete with the West, however East teams did not organize a formal league as the West did.

Win-loss records were sporadically reported due to lack of interest by the press mainly in New York.
Bacharach claimed the pennant, although Hilldale disputed it.


Events


January–June
January 3 – The New York Yankees purchase outfielder Babe Ruth from the Boston Red Sox for $100,000.
January 12 – A plan that was originally developed by Charles Ebbets is finally adopted by major league baseball owners.
It was a plan for a draft of minor league players by major league teams via an inverse of how the teams finished in the standings the previous season.
February 13 – A meeting in Kansas City results in the birth of the Negro National League.
Rube Foster spearheads the formation of the league, which will consist of eight franchises: Chicago American Giants, Chicago Giants, Cuban Stars, Dayton Marcos, Detroit Stars, Indianapolis ABCs, Kansas City Monarchs and St.
Louis Giants.
April 8 – The St.
Louis Cardinals release pitcher Red Ames.
April 14 – Stan Coveleski and the Cleveland Indians hold the St.
Louis Browns to five hits in a 5–0 victory at Dunn Field.
The Chicago White Sox defeat the Detroit Tigers 3–2 and the Philadelphia Athletics defeat the New York Yankees 3–1 as the road teams win two of the three contests in the season openers in the American League.
April 19 – Babe Ruth enters Fenway Park as a member of the opposing team for the first time in his career as the Boston Red Sox sweep a doubleheader from Ruth and the New York Yankees.
Ruth goes three-for-eight with an RBI.
April 25 – High Pockets Kelly drives in three as the New York Giants defeat the Brooklyn Robins 5–2 in the first meeting of the National League's two New York teams.
May 1 – The Brooklyn Robins' Leon Cadore and the Boston Braves' Joe Oeschger pitched 26 innings in a 1–1 tie.
Morning rain delayed the start of the game until 3:00 p.m.
The Dodgers scored a run in the top of the fifth, a single by Ivy Olson driving in Ernie Krueger.
The Braves tied it in the bottom of the sixth with a double by Walt Cruise and a single by Tony Boeckel.
The game went into extra innings.
No runs were scored for the rest of the game and it was called due to darkness in the 26th inning.
May 2 – Opening day for the Negro National League.
May 3 – Dutch Leonard and the Detroit Tigers defeat the Cleveland Indians 5–1 for their first win of the season versus thirteen losses.
May 14 – Walter Johnson of the Washington Senators records his 300th win.
May 20 – At Griffith Stadium, the Washington Senators and Chicago White Sox go into extra innings tied at three.
The ChiSox score two in the fifteenth inning only to be matched by Washington in the bottom of the inning.
Chicago then puts up eight runs in the sixteenth to win the game by a final score of 13–5 in sixteen innings.
Red Faber pitches all sixteen innings for Chicago.
June 1 – In a slugfest at Dunn Field, the Detroit Tigers defeat the Cleveland Indians 11–10.
Detroit's Ty Cobb goes two-for-five with two RBIs and a run scored.
June 8 – Reds outfielder Edd Roush falls asleep in the outfield.
Roush laid down while an argument occurred in the infield.
Once the argument concludes Heinie Groh attempts to awaken Roush.
Roush is ejected by the umpire for delaying the game.
June 24 – Following a 5–3 loss to the Cincinnati Reds, the Philadelphia Phillies fall into last place in the National League.
With the Philadelphia A's having been in last place since the 13th, both Philadelphia teams spend the rest of the season in last.
June 28 – The Philadelphia Athletics defeat the Washington Senators 6–2 to end an 18-game losing streak.
After giving up two runs on two hits and a walk in the first inning, A's starter Slim Harriss cruises the rest of the way for the complete game victory.


July–September
July 1 – Six weeks after recording his 300th, Walter Johnson pitches the only no-hitter of his career, as the Washington Senators top the Boston Red Sox, 1–0.
July 27 – The Washington Senators defeat the Cleveland Indians 19–6.
Indians starter Ray Caldwell lasts just 1.1 innings, and is replaced by George Uhle, who gives up four hits and a walk in only a third of an inning of work.
Tony Faeth picks up the third out of the second inning to stop the bleeding after the Senators have plated twelve runs.
In all, the Senators collect 22 hits as every starter, including pitcher Eric Erickson collects at least one hit.
August 13 – The New York Yankees complete a three-game sweep of the Cleveland Indians to move within a half game of first place.
August 16 – Cleveland Indians shortstop Ray Chapman is struck in the head by a pitch from the New York Yankees' Carl Mays in a game at the Polo Grounds.
He dies twelve hours later from a fractured skull, making it the only fatal field accident in Major League Baseball history.
His death leads to the banning of the spitball.
September 6 – The Cleveland Indians purchase the contract of Joe Sewell from the New Orleans Pelicans of the Southern Association.
Sewell will become the Indians starting shortstop for the next ten years, replacing Ray Chapman, who perished as the result of an on-field beaning days prior.
September 10 – Hall of Fame Cleveland Indians shortstop Joe Sewell makes his major league debut in a 6–1 loss to the New York Yankees.
September 15 – In the second game of a double header with the Boston Braves, Hall of famer Pie Traynor makes his major league debut at shortstop for the Pittsburgh Pirates.
September 17
The Detroit Tigers' Bobby Veach and New York Giants' George Burns hit for the cycle, the first time it happened twice on the same day, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.
Veach finished 6-for-6, adding two singles, as Burns added a second double to his cycle in New York's 4–3 win over the Pittsburgh Pirates in ten innings.
Two separate players would not hit for the cycle on the same day until 2008, when the feat was duplicated by Stephen Drew and Adrián Beltré for the Arizona Diamondbacks and Seattle Mariners, respectively.
The Detroit Tigers defeat the Boston Red Sox, 13–12, in 12 innings, despite a major-league record 20 BoSox receiving walks.
Eight Tigers also walk to set another ML record of 28 walks in an extra-inning game.
St.
Louis Browns first baseman George Sisler goes four-for-five in the Browns' 17–6 victory over the Philadelphia Athletics to raise his average to .400.
Sisler will end the season with a .407 batting average.
September 25
After having spent most of the season in the minors, and having logged only ten innings pitched all season, Pittsburgh Pirates pitcher Jimmy Zinn pitches all twelve innings in the Pirates' 2–1 extra innings victory over the St.
Louis Cardinals.
Zinn gives up just six hits in his twelve innings of work.
The Boston Red Sox defeat the Philadelphia Athletics 4–2, handing Connie Mack's team their 100th loss of the season.
September 27 – Babe Ruth hits two home runs, and accounts for all three runs scored in the New York Yankees' 3–0 victory over the Philadelphia Athletics.
The two home runs bring his season total to 53.
He hits his 54th, and final, home run two days later.


October–December
October 1 – The Chicago Cubs' Pete Alexander pitches 17 innings to earn his National League leading 27th victory.
Only one of the two runs Alexander surrenders to the St.
Louis Cardinals is earned, lowering his ERA to 1.91 for the season, which also leads the league.
October 2
Jim Bagby and the Cleveland Indians defeat the Detroit Tigers 10–1 for Bagby's 31st victory of the season.
At Forbes Field, the Pittsburgh Pirates and Cincinnati Reds play the last major league tripleheader, with Cincinnati winning the first two games, 13–4 & 7–3, and Pittsburgh winning the third 6–0 in six innings.
October 5 – The Cleveland Indians defeat the Brooklyn Robins, 3–1, in Game one of the 1920 World Series at Ebbets Field.
Indians' pitcher Stan Coveleski gives up a run on five hits and one walk, while striking out three in a complete game effort, while his battery-mate Steve O'Neill led the attack with two doubles and two runs batted in.
Rube Marquard is the losing pitcher.
October 6 – The Brooklyn Robins even the World Series at a game apiece with a 3–0 shutout against the visiting Cleveland Indians.
Burleigh Grimes is credited with the shoutout, holding Cleveland to only seven hits and four walks while striking out two.
Brooklyn right fielder Tommy Griffith goes 2-for-4 with two RBI.
Jim Bagby, the losing pitcher, gave up three runs and seven hits in six innings of work.
October 7 – The host Brooklyn Robins beat the Cleveland Indians, 2–1, to take a 2–1 advantage in the World Series.
The Robins took an early 2–0 lead in the bottom of the first inning, when leadoff hitter Ivy Olson walked and Tommy Griffith reached base on an error, followed by RBI-singles by Zack Wheat and Hy Myers.
The only Cleveland run came in the fourth, after Tris Speaker doubled to left field and scored on an error.
Robins' starter Sherry Smith pitched all the way, giving up an unearned run on three hits and two walks, while striking out two.
Ray Caldwell was credited with the loss.
October 9 – The Cleveland Indians even the World Series at two games a piece, with a 5–1 victory against the Brooklyn Robins at League Park.
For the second time pitcher Stan Coveleski silenced the Brooklyn hitters for nine innings, giving up a run on five hits while striking out four and walking one.
Bill Wambsganss hit 2-for-4 with an RBI and scored twice, while Tris Speaker went 2-for-5 with two runs and George Burns drove in two runs.
Coveleski helped himself with a single and a run, while Larry Gardner and Elmer Smith drove in a run apiece.
The only Brooklyn damage came in the fourth inning after a single by Jimmy Johnston and a RBI-double from Tommy Griffith.
The Robins used four pitchers, as starter Leon Cadore lasted just one inning and was credited with the loss.
October 10 – At League Park, the Cleveland Indians beat the Brooklyn Robins 8–1 in Game 5 of the World Series to take a 3–2 lead in the Classic, in one of the most unusual games in Series history.
This game recorded the only triple play ever made in postseason play, the first Series grand slam, and the first Series home run hit by a pitcher.
The triple play was unassisted and turned by Cleveland second baseman Bill Wambsganss, while the grand slam was hit by Indians outfielder Elmer Smith and the home run belted by Cleveland starter Jim Bagby, who earned the victory.
Beside this, Brooklyn outhit Cleveland, 13-to-12, in a lost cause.
Burleigh Grimes was charged with the loss.
October 11 – The Cleveland Indians put themselves one win away from their first World Championship title, after beating the Brooklyn Robins, 1–0, in Game 6 of the World Series at Cleveland League Park.
Facing his former team, Duster Mails pitched a sterling three-hit shutout with four strikeouts and two walks.
The only run of the game came in the bottom of the sixth inning, when Tris Speaker hit a two-out single and scored on a double by George Burns.
The lack of run support by the Robins made a hard-luck loser out of their starter Sherry Smith, who gave up a run on seven hits in a complete-game defeat.
October 12 – The Cleveland Indians defeated the visiting Brooklyn Robins, 3–0, in Game 7 of the World Series, to clinch their first World Championship five games to two.
Stan Coveleski earned the shutout and his third victory of the Series, limiting the Robins to five hits and striking out one without walks, to reach a minuscule 0.67 ERA in three complete games.
The Indians scored his first run in the bottom of the fourth inning, when Larry Gardner singled and scored on a two-out error.
An inning later, Charlie Jamieson singled and scored on a two-out triple by Tris Speaker.
The last run came in the seventh, when Coveleski scored on a double by Jamieson.
Burleigh Grimes was the loser, after allowing all three runs on seven hits in seven innings.
October 22 – Eight members of the Chicago White Sox are indicted for supposedly throwing the 1919 World Series.
Although considered heavy favorites to win the Series, the White Sox lost to the Cincinnati Reds in eight games.
November 12 – MLB owners unanimously elect Kenesaw Mountain Landis as sole commissioner of Major League Baseball for seven years, abolishing the National Baseball Commission.
The owners' action comes in direct response to the Black Sox Scandal, which threatens the integrity of the game.
Landis agreed on the condition that he would be the sole commissioner, with final authority over the players and owners.
Landis remains a federal judge with his $7,500 federal salary deducted from the baseball salary of $50,000.


Births


January
January 2 – Cliff Dapper
January 4 – Walter Ockey
January 6 – Early Wynn
January 7 – Dixie Howell
January 8 – Bert Kuczynski
January 10 – Max Patkin
January 15 – Steve Gromek
January 16 – Ray Poole
January 16 – Roy Talcott
January 17 – Jay Heard
January 20 – Sam Hairston
January 26 – Dick Mauney
January 27 – Eddie Shokes


February
February 2 – Zeb Eaton
February 8 – Buddy Blattner
February 11 – Boyd Bartley
February 14 – Marie Kazmierczak
February 17 – Gertrude Ganote
February 20 – Frankie Gustine
February 22 – Karl Drews
February 23 – Roy Valdés
February 26 – Danny Gardella
February 27 – Connie Ryan


March
March 3 – Dick Adkins
March 9 – James Bizzle
March 13 – Frank Biscan
March 18 – Mickey Rutner
March 20 – Twila Shively
March 21 – Mabel Holle
March 23 – Tetsuharu Kawakami
March 25 – Sam Lowry
March 27 – Joe Tuminelli
March 28 – Fred Hancock
March 28 – Babe Martin
March 30 – Irene Ruhnke
March 31 – Dave Koslo


April
April 8 – Dick Adams
April 19 – John O'Neil
April 24 – Dixie Howell
April 26 – Ron Northey
April 28 – Red Treadway


May
May 3 – Dan Bankhead
May 10 – Mickey Grasso
May 11 – Gene Hermanski
May 16 – Dave Philley
May 20 – Helen Fox
May 22 – Pinky Woods
May 23 – Francisco José Cróquer
May 24 – Vern Curtis


June
June 9 – Sal Madrid
June 10 – Johnny Podgajny
June 12 – Jim Colzie
June 13 – Héctor Rodríguez
June 16 – Eddie Malone
June 20 – Red Barbary
June 22 – Walt Masterson
June 23 – Deacon Donahue
June 26 – Jean-Pierre Roy
June 28 – Bert Shepard


July
July 1 – Paul Lehner
July 3 – Al Montgomery
July 3 – Paul O'Dea
July 6 – Jay Avrea
July 13 – Frank Hiller
July 14 – Bryan Stephens
July 15 – Theresa Kobuszewski
July 16 – Larry Jansen
July 18 – Eddie Kazak
July 26 – Eddie Bockman
July 26 – Sibby Sisti
July 29 – Erv Dusak
July 31 – Fred Bradley


August
August 3 – Jim Hegan
August 3 – Vic Johnson
August 4 – Bob Keegan
August 5 – Eddie Lukon
August 17 – Vern Bickford
August 18 – Bob Kennedy
August 21 – Ben Cardoni
August 21 – Whitey Platt
August 21 – Gerry Staley
August 23 – Kaoru Betto


September
September 3 – Sandy Consuegra
September 4 – Catherine Bennett
September 5 – Gene Bearden
September 9 – George Kissell
September 12 – Andy Seminick
September 13 – Ed Sudol
September 18 – Paul Gillespie
September 18 – Ed Hanyzewski
September 22 – Larry Eschen
September 22 – Bob Lemon
September 23 – Marino Pieretti
September 24 – Otis Davis
September 30 – Lyman Linde


October
October 2 – Joe B.
Scott
October 2 – Spec Shea
October 8 – George Metkovich
October 20 – Pat McGlothin
October 20 – Bill Ramsey
October 22 – Jim Hickey
October 23 – Vern Stephens
October 26 – Bud Byerly
October 28 – Artie Wilson
October 29 – Lenna Arnold


November
November 2 – Dick Sisler
November 2 – John Sullivan
November 4 – Val Heim
November 8 – Wally Westlake
November 9 – Bill Mueller
November 9 – Homer Spragins
November 9 – Dick Whitman
November 10 – Russ Kerns
November 11 – Joe Murray
November 21 – Stan Musial
November 23 – Jake Jones
November 26 – Bud Sheely
November 27 – Johnny Schmitz


December
December 1 – Charlie Ripple
December 2 – Beatrice Arbour
December 6 – Gus Niarhos
December 15 – Eddie Robinson
December 17 – Mike Schultz
December 20 – Julio González
December 21 – Bill Werle
December 27 – Dutch McCall
December 28 – Leslie Aulds


Deaths


January–March
February 2 – Frank Quinn, 43, outfielder for the 1899 Chicago Orphans of the National League.
February 5 – Tom Catterson, 35, outfielder who played from 1908 through 1909 for the Brooklyn Superbas of the National League.
February 5 – Ed Siever, 44, pitcher who posted an 83–83 record and a 2.60 earned run average for the Detroit Tigers and St.
Louis Browns, while leading the American League pitchers with 1.91 ERA in 1902.
February 6 – Jack Lapp, 35, backup catcher who hit .263 in nine seasons for the Philadelphia Athletics (1908–1915) and Chicago White Sox.
February 11 – Ray Boyd, 33, pitcher who played from 1910 to 1911 with the AL St.
Louis Browns and NL Cincinnati Reds.
February 12 – Mike Goodfellow, 53, National League outfielder for the 1887 St.
Louis Browns and the 1888 Cleveland Blues.
February 13 – John Shoupe, 68, pitcher and infielder in part of three seasons for the Troy Trojans (NL, 1879), St.
Louis Brown Stockings (AA, 1882) and Washington Nationals (UA, 1884).
February 14 – Andy Sullivan, 35, shortstop for the 1904 Boston Beaneaters of the National League.
March 1 – Harry Jordan, 47, pitcher who went 1–2 with a 4.15 ERA for the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1894 to 1895.
March 5 – Alex Farmer, 42, catcher for the 1908 Brooklyn Superbas of the National League.
March 10 – Charlie Briggs, 59, second baseman and outfielder who played for the Chicago Browns of the Union Association during the 1884 season.
March 11 – Ed Poole, 44, National League pitcher who played from 1902 through 1904 for the Pittsburgh Pirates, Cincinnati Reds and Brooklyn Superbas.


April–June
April 2 – Matty McIntyre, 39, outfielder for the Philadelphia Athletics, Detroit Tigers and Chicago White Sox between 1901 and 1912, who led the American League in runs, singles and times on base in the 1908 season.
April 3 – Aaron S.
Stern, c.
65, executive with the Cincinnati Red Stockings during the 1880s.
April 18 – George McMillan, 56, Canadian outfielder for the 1890 New York Giants of the National League.
May 1 – Joe Leonard, 25, third baseman for the Pittsburgh Pirates, Cleveland Indians, and Washington Senators between the 1914 and 1920 seasons.
May 8 – Bill McTigue, 27, pitcher who went 2–5 in 27 games with the Boston Rustlers/Braves (1911/1912–1913) and Detroit Tigers (1916).
May 23 – Doc Kennedy, 66, National League catcher who hit .260 in 160 games for the Cleveland Blues and Buffalo Bisons from 1879 to 1883.
June 10 – Martin Flaherty, 66, sporting goods dealer who came out of the stands to play one game for the 1881 Worcester Ruby Legs.
June 19 – Ed Barry, 37, pitcher for the Boston Americans from 1905 through 1907.


July–September
July 19 – John Hinton, 44, third baseman for the 1901 Boston Beaneaters of the National League.
July 20 – Bill O'Neill, 40, Canadian shortstop for the Boston Americans, Washington Senators and Chicago White Sox between 1904 and 1906, who committed six errors in a single game in 1904 to become the only 20th-century big-leaguer to accomplish this dubious feat.
July 23 – Buttercup Dickerson, 62, outfielder for eight teams from 1878 to 1885.
Officially the first Italian American to play Major League Baseball.
August 1 – Frank Norton, 75, outfielder/third baseman for the 1871 Washington Olympics of the National Association.
August 4 – Frank Fennelly, 60, shortstop for four different teams from 1884 to 1890, who led the National League for the most RBI in 1885.
August 12 – Elmer Horton, 48, pitcher for the 1896 Pittsburgh Pirates and the 1898 Brooklyn Bridegrooms of the National League.
August 17 – Ray Chapman, 29, shortstop for the Cleveland Indians since 1912 who batted .300 three times, led American League in runs and walks in 1918.
August 27 – Toby Lyons, 51, pitcher for the 1890 Syracuse Stars of the American Association.
August 29 – Jimmy Peoples, 56, catcher who played from 1884 through 1889 for the Cincinnati Red Stockings, Brooklyn Grays/Bridegrooms and Columbus Solons.
August 31 – John Ricks, 52, third baseman for the St.
Louis Browns of the National League in the 1891 and 1894 seasons.
September 5 – Jerry Turbidy, 68, shortstop who played for the Kansas City Cowboys of the Union Association in 1884.
September 11 – Bill Hallman, 53, second baseman, mainly with the Phillies, who batted .300 and scored 100 runs four times each.
September 17 – Charlie Eden, 65, outfielder in parts of four parts for the Chicago White Stockings, Cleveland Blues, and Pittsburgh Alleghenys, who led the National League in total bases and extrabase hits in 1879.
September 23 – Doc Curley, 46, second baseman for the 1899 Chicago Orphans of the National League.
September 28 – Phil Reardon, 36, outfielder for the 1906 Brooklyn Superbas of the National League.
September 29 – Mark Creegan, 50, outfielder for the 1884 Washington Nationals of the Union Association.


October–December
October 2 – Walter Hackett, 63, shortstop who played for the 1884 Boston Reds in the Union Association and the 1885 Boston Beaneaters in the National League.
October 9 – Carl Vandagrift, 37, utility infielder for the 1914 Indianapolis Hoosiers of the Federal League.
November 30 – Lou Meyers, 60, catcher/outfielder for the 1884 Cincinnati Outlaw Reds of the Union Association.
December 9 – George Browne, 44, outfielder for seven different teams in a span of eleven seasons, and a member of the 1905 New York Giants World Champions.
December 16 – Dick Bayless, 37, right fielder for the Cincinnati Reds in 1908.
December 27 – Harvey Cushman, 43, pitcher for the 1902 Pittsburgh Pirates.


References

Rocky River High School (North Carolina)
Rocky River High School is a high school in Mint Hill, a suburb of Charlotte, North Carolina, United States.
The school opened its doors to students in the fall of 2010.


Notable alumni
Jaire Alexander, NFL All-pro cornerback for the Philadelphia Eagles
DeAndre' Bembry, NBA player for the Toronto Raptors
Jaden Springer, basketball player


References

Hasan Kandi Rud
Hasan Kandi Rud (Persian: حسن كندي رود) is a village in Aliabad Rural District of the Central District in Hashtrud County, East Azerbaijan province, Iran.


Demographics


Population
At the time of the 2006 National Census, the village's population was 883 in 220 households.
The following census in 2011 counted 763 people in 240 households.
The 2016 census measured the population of the village as 705 people in 243 households.


See also
 Iran portal


Notes


References

List of public art in Stirling
This is a list of public art in Stirling, Scotland, and includes works in the Stirling council area.
This list applies only to works of public art on permanent display in an outdoor public space and does not, for example, include artworks in museums.


Abbey Craig


Bannockburn


Balmaha


Bridge of Allan


Doune


Dunblane


Sheriffmuir


Stirling


Stirling Castle


Strathblane


Thornhill


References

Prison Four
Prison Four (Hebrew: כלא ארבע, Kele Arba), officially Confinement Base 394 (Hebrew: בסיס כליאה 394, Bsis Kli'a 394) was an Israeli military prison for Israeli soldiers, located in the military police compound in Tzrifin (Camp Yadin), Israel.
It was the main prison for military prisoners in Israel (the secondary being Prison Six) and could contain approximately 600 prisoners.
It was the only prison for Israeli soldiers during an emergency.
Prison Four accepted all prisoners except officers, senior NCOs, some military policemen and soldiers who serve in the Northern Command.
These go to Prison Six.
Both prisons were closed in 2021 and the prisoners were transferred to the new Neve Tzedek military prison within the Gur Camp complex  near Kfar Yona.


History
Prison Four was founded soon after the 1948 Arab-Israeli War and absorbed prisoners from a provisional jail previously set up in northern Tel Aviv (al-Shaykh Muwannis).
It suffered neglect and overcrowding from the onset, and in 1949 a commission of inquiry was ordered by the IDF Chief of Staff, led by Aluf Moshe Zadok and Aluf David Shaltiel.
Prison Six was eventually founded as a result of Prison Four's extreme overcrowding.
Ever since, Prison Four has gradually undergone major changes.
The prison was the first to experiment with new ideas in the prison sector, such as the operation of security cameras in key locations, as well as a rehabilitation program called Gahelet (lit.
factors for returning to proper service) in 2000.
In 2006, prisoners' valuables  were stolen from the prison's safe, and in January 2008 a prisoner died for the first time in the history of the jail, although the exact circumstances of his death remain unclear.
Both events caused the high command of the Military Police Corps to rethink their approach to the prison system and install new safeguards.


Syrian prisoner escape
After the Six-Day War, high-status Arab prisoners of war were kept in regular Israeli military prisons, including Prison Four.
They were given excellent living conditions, including television, more access to possessions, and trips to the outside, in order to ensure that the Israeli POWs held in Egypt and Syria would get similar treatment.
On April 16, 1972, three Syrian prisoners were found missing in a morning roll call and were later confirmed to be escapees.
After the initial investigation, the commander of the Manpower Directorate, Aluf Shlomo Lahat, ordered a revocation of all special privileges to POWs held in Prison Four.
The deputy Chief Military Police Officer, Colonel Meir Rosenfeld, was responsible for the task, and as a first step informed a cell of Egyptians that their television sets would be removed.
The Egyptians asked for two hours to formulate a means to have all the prisoners give up their TVs, meanwhile planning a riot.
They began fortifying their cells and damaging the weak ceilings.
After this became clear to the jailors, an intervention team was formed, although Col.
Rosenfeld did not wish to have a violent clash which would endanger either Egyptian or Israeli lives.
Rosenfeld personally climbed the roof of the cellblock and fired a bursts around him to scare the Egyptians.
One bullet ricocheted and wounded an Egyptian prisoner.
The others promptly surrendered and the injured prisoner died from his wounds.
While the Chief of Staff David Elazar, who arrived at the scene, praised Rosenfeld for his actions, an investigating committee found that he used his weapon illegally.
As a result, Megiddo Prison was founded in 1974 to hold certain prisoners of war, as well as problematic Israeli military prisoners.


Structure

There were six companies in Prison Four and several other assisting sub-units:

Absorption Company - accepts new prisoners and sometimes temporarily holds them before they can be transferred to a permanent company.
Formerly this company was located outside the prison and had accommodations for prisoners, but this was changed following the mass deposit robbery of 2006.
Headed by a lieutenant.
Company Alef (א) - for prisoners serving sentences of 28 days or less, or those who have less than 28 days till their release.
This is an open company, i.e.
prisoners sleep in an open (but guarded) area, and not in jail cells.
Headed by a captain and can contain up to 120 prisoners.
Company Bet (ב) - for long-time convicts, usually with sentences above 100 days.
Company Bet is known for its harsh living conditions.
Company Gimel  was a closed company for detainees awaiting trial, new prisoners, and some serving medium sentences.
It consists of four regular platoons and a fifth absorption platoon, where new prisoners are accepted and sorted.
Gimel is the largest company, containing up to 180 prisoners, and its commander is a major instead of a captain.
Company Dalet was   an open company and the least strict of any of the other companies.
While technically intended for reservists, there are two other classes of soldiers who may serve their sentences there.
Soldiers aged 22 and above may request placement in Company Dalet, as may soldiers serving in the Nahal Haredi, a battalion made up of Haredi soldiers.
The reason for the latter group of soldiers is that women do not serve as jail instructors in Company Dalet, thereby minimizing the Haredi soldiers' exposure to women.
Company 400 - formerly a separate prison, company 400 is the women's company, and contains all female prisoners.


Assisting units
Prisoner management unit -  served as the adjutant unit for prisoners only.
Adjutant unit -  served as the adjutant unit for regular soldiers serving in Prison Four.
Operations sector.
Operations room.
Mental health sector - provided psychological help for prisoners.
Headed by a major.
Gahelet sector - a sector introduced in 2000, which helped prisoners resume normal service.
This sector was operated mostly by female soldiers who pick the soldiers they want to help, instead of the soldier asking for help as with other sectors.
Intelligence sector - responsible for collecting intelligence about possible rebellions, etc.
Headed by a first sergeant (called an intelligence officer).


See also
Israeli military prison
Military Police Corps (Israel)
Prison Six


References

IPhone OS 3
iPhone OS 3 (stylized as iPhone OS 3.0) is the third major release of the iOS mobile operating system developed by Apple Inc., succeeding iPhone OS 2.
It was announced on March 17, 2009, and was released on June 17, 2009.
It was succeeded by iOS 4 on June 21, 2010, dropping the "iPhone OS" naming convention.
iPhone OS 3 added a system-wide "cut, copy, and paste" feature, allowing users to more easily move content.
It also introduced Spotlight, a search indexing feature designed to help users locate specific information on their device, such as contacts, email messages or apps.
The home screen was expanded to let users add up to 11 pages, showcasing a total of 180 apps.
The Messages app received support for MMS, while the Camera app received support for video recording on the iPhone 3GS, and a new "Voice Memos" app let users record their voice.
In-app purchase capability was added to third-party applications as well for the App Store.
Apple also added the accessibility screenreader option Voiceover to iOS devices with this release.
iPhone OS 3 is the last version of iOS that supports the first-generation iPhone and first-generation iPod Touch as its successor, iOS 4, drops support for both models.
iPhone OS 3.2 is the first iPhone OS version to support the first generation iPad.


Default apps
iTunes
App Store
Text
Calendar
Photos
Camera
YouTube
Stocks
Maps
Weather
Clock
Calculator
Notes
Settings


Default dock
Phone
Mail
Safari
iPod/Music


System features


Cut, copy, or paste
iPhone OS 3 introduced a "cut, copy, and paste" bubble dialog when users press and hold text.
The "paste" button would incorporate anything stored in the device's clipboard into the marked area.


Spotlight
Spotlight is a system-wide indexing and search feature, aiming to help users search their device for specific contacts, email messages, calendar appointments, multimedia files, apps and more.
It is accessed by swiping to the right from the home screen.


Voiceover
Voiceover is a screenreader accessibility feature option for blind or low vision users that says the text that is on the screen.
This feature was first introduced with OS X 10.4 Tiger in 2005.


Home screen
iPhone OS 3 expanded the maximum number of pages on the home screen to 11, for a total number of 180 apps.


Find My iPhone
Users with subscriptions to MobileMe were able to remotely track, lock, and erase their iPhones if lost.


App features


Messages
The Messages app received native support for the Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS), allowing users to send and receive messages that also contain pictures, contacts, locations, voice recordings, and video messages.


Camera and Photos
The Camera app introduced video recording for the iPhone 3GS.
The Photos app featured a new copy button and the ability to delete multiple photos at once.


Cost
Upgrading to iPhone OS 3 was free for iPhone.
Upgrading to iPhone OS 3 originally cost iPod Touch users $9.95; updating to 3.1.x from 2.x cost only $4.95.
iPhone OS 3 was the last major version of iOS for which there was a charge for iPod Touch users to upgrade.
Starting with iOS 4, iOS upgrades became free for all users, including users of the iPod Touch, as the Sarbanes–Oxley Act was revised to allow software upgrades for free with hardware that is not subscription-based.


Supported devices
All devices that supported iPhone OS 1 and 2 support iPhone OS 3; however, only the iPhone 3GS supports video recording.


Version history


References


External links
iPhone OS 3 at the Wayback Machine (archived August 18, 2009)

Porter Square
Porter Square is a neighborhood in Cambridge and Somerville, Massachusetts, located around the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue and Somerville Avenue, between Harvard and Davis Squares.
The Porter Square station serves both the MBTA Red Line and the Commuter Rail Fitchburg Line.
A major part of the Lesley University campus is located within the Porter Square area.
In 2004–06 the principal intersection, including the area adjacent to the shopping center, underwent extensive construction both to improve access for vehicles, pedestrians, bicyclists, and mass transit users, and to improve drainage and storm water conditions.
The artist Toshihiro Katayama of Harvard University, in conjunction with the landscape architect Cynthia Smith, designed a new visual look for the new circulation design, including contrasting light and dark concrete paving, stone walls and boulders.


History

Previously called Union Square, Porter Square was renamed in 1896 after Porter's Hotel to reduce confusion with Union Square in Somerville.
The hotel was operated by Zachariah B.
Porter and is one possible origin of the porterhouse steak.
The hotel was demolished in 1909.
The square, formerly flanked by cattle yards that used the Porter rail head to transport their beef throughout the US, was an important center for commerce and light industry as early as the late 18th century.
A tunnel for moving cattle to and from the railroad without interfering with street traffic, known as the Walden Street Cattle Pass, was built in 1857.
The tunnel survives under the nearby Walden Street Bridge, and in 2007–08 was preserved and restored.
The "most dramatic loss" of early 19th century landscape in the square was the leveling of the old Rand Estate in 1952 to make way for the Porter Square Shopping Center.
In 1984 the Red Line was extended from Harvard through Porter and Davis Square to its present terminus at Alewife, a project that also left Porter with its most visible landmark, Susumu Shingu's 46-foot painted steel and aluminum kinetic sculpture, Gift of the Wind.


Lesley University

Lesley University continues to expand in the Porter Square neighborhood, with the relocation of its College of Art and Design to the North Prospect Church and a new building built on the church's former site at the corner of Massachusetts Avenue and Roseland Street.
In addition to University Hall at 1815 Massachusetts Avenue and the Lunder Arts Center at 1801 Massachusetts Avenue, Lesley also has administrative offices at 815 Somerville Avenue and parking areas across Massachusetts Avenue from University Hall.


Shopping


Porter Square Shopping Center
 The Porter Square Shopping Center consists of two buildings and a parking lot.



Porter Square Galleria
Adjacent to the Porter Square Shopping Center is a small mall called the Porter Square Galleria.
In recent years it has lost several large tenants.
A Target has been built in the space formerly occupied by Walgreens.


The Shops at Porter

A prominent feature of the Porter Square skyline is the tower on the Art Deco-style building located at 1815 Massachusetts Avenue.
The building, now known as University Hall, was originally a Sears, Roebuck store from 1928 to 1985.
In 1991, Lesley University began leasing classroom space there, and in 1994 the university bought the building, which now houses its Graduate School of Education, bookstore, administrative offices, art and dance studios, and classrooms.


References


External links
Description of Porter Square design project from Cambridge Arts Council
PSNA Porter Square Neighbors Association

Extreme Ice Hockey League
The Extreme Ice Hockey League (XHL) is the second-tier ice hockey league in Japan, below the Asia League Ice Hockey.
It is administered by the Japan Ice Hockey Federation (JIHF), a member of the IIHF.


History
The Japan Ice Hockey Federation announced the creation of the Extreme Ice Hockey League in June 2025 with the first season expected to be played from October 2025 to March 2026.
Initially, the teams would all be based in the Tokyo, Nagoya, and Shiga regions.
The federation that it hoped the new league would help grow the sport in Japan.
The first season featured three teams: Nagoya Orques, Shiga Blue Rise, and Tokyo Wilds.
The league was played in a round-robin format with each team playing six home games.
The first game was held on 12 October 2025 with Shiga Blue Rise hosting Nagoya Orcs at Kinoshita Kansei Ice Arena in Ōtsu.


Current teams


Season results


See also
Asia League Ice Hockey
Japan Ice Hockey Federation
Japan men's national ice hockey team


External links
Official website
Page at Japan Ice Hockey Federation


References

Eat Your Face
Eat Your Face is the eighth album by the Huntington Beach, California punk rock band Guttermouth, released in 2004 by Epitaph Records and Volcom Entertainment.
It was hailed as a "return to form" after the stylistic experimentations of 2002's Gusto, going back to the band's tried-and-true style of fast, abrasive punk rock with tongue-in-cheek humor and sarcastic lyrics.
The album marked a period of transition for the band, whose founding guitarist Eric Davis had left the group early in 2004 and been replaced by Donald Horne.
It was also their only album with bassist Kevin Clark, and their last with longtime drummer Ty Smith.
Lyrically it retained the band’s sense of biting sarcasm and expressed dissatisfaction with the U.S.
electoral system and the current state of punk rock in the mainstream, amongst other topics.
In the summer of 2004 Guttermouth embarked on the Vans Warped Tour in support of Eat Your Face.
However, the band's outrageous behavior and propensity for stirring up controversy soon led to problems on the tour.
Singer Mark Adkins would often openly insult other acts from onstage, and the band members mocked the anti-Republican agenda of many of the tour's performers by selling T-shirts and displaying banners that proclaimed support for President George W.
Bush.
After several weeks the band abruptly left the tour, causing many rumors to circulate online and in the music press as to the reasons behind their departure, some claiming that they had been ejected and others that they had been asked to leave.
Eventually Adkins issued a statement admitting that the band had left the tour voluntarily, due in part to his distaste for the political atmosphere surrounding it.
Eat Your Face was released jointly by Epitaph Records and Volcom Entertainment.
It would be the band's final recording for Epitaph, as they would move fully to Volcom for their next album, 2006's Shave the Planet.


Track listing
All songs written by Guttermouth

"Party of Two (Your Table is Ready)" - 2:53
"Surf's Up Asshole" - 3:15
"Octopus Hairpiece" - 2:19
"Wasted Lives" - 2:10
"The Next Faux Mohican" - 2:42
"Season" - 1:58
"Second DUI" - 2:31
"My Neighbor's Baby" - 2:54
"Guadalahabra (The La Habra Spirit)" - 2:33
"NRAA" - 1:59
"I Read it on a Bathroom Wall in Reno" - 1:52
"Ticket to Quebec" - 1:11
"Hot Dog to the Head (A Hot Dog is a Food Not a Penis So Get it Right or Pay the Price)" - 11:45


Performers
Mark Adkins - vocals
Scott Sheldon - guitar
Donald "Don" Horne - guitar
Kevin Clark  - bass guitar
William Tyler "Ty" Smith - drums


Album information
Record label: Epitaph Records
Recorded at Criterion Studios and Harcourt Studios April 5–10, 2004
Produced by Scott Sheldon and Donald Horne
Engineered by Brent
Engineered by Brent, Scott Sheldon, and Donald Horne
Mastered by Gene Grimaldi at Oasis Mastering


References

Conspiranoid
Conspiranoid is a three-track EP by the American rock band Primus, released on April 22, 2022.
Released on vinyl and CD, this EP includes the band's longest song to date "Conspiranoia", clocking in at eleven minutes; it was released as a single on April 5, 2022, alongside a music video created by Cage Claypool, the son of Primus vocalist and bassist Les Claypool.
It is also Primus' last release with drummer Tim "Herb" Alexander before leaving the band for the third time in October 2024.


Background and production
Primus frontman Les Claypool revealed the inspiration for the EP in an interview with Consequence, saying that it "sprouted from a seed I had planted in my notebook a year or so ago—a few lines commenting on the mental state of the contemporary world." It was inspired by what Claypool perceived as a growing divide between people, caused by "disinformation, misinformation, warped information, and flat-out fairy tales being perpetuated by anyone with a slight hint of web design aptitude."
Primus had initially intended to make the follow-up to The Desaturating Seven (2017), but were not interested in writing an album's worth of material, due to time constraints.
Instead they began writing a single, initially with the idea of creating a "long, winding, bastard of a song", twenty minutes in length.
This song became "Conspiranoia", and with a length of eleven and a half minutes, it is the longest song Primus has ever recorded.
In addition, the band finished an existing track "Follow the Fool" as well as the newly written "Erin on the Side of Caution", the latter of which was also based on writings from Claypool's notebook.


Lyrical themes
Conspiranoid covers topics and themes related to misinformation and conspiracy theories, serving as a criticism and satire of American far-right conspiracy theories and the culture surrounding them.
The track "Conspiranoia" is worded as a cautionary tale and contains lyrical references to chemtrails, QAnon, flat earth, COVID-19 conspiracy theories, Donald Trump, and antisemitic conspiracy theories.
The title of the EP is a portmanteau of the words "conspiracy" and "paranoid".


Track listing


Personnel
Les Claypool – vocals, bass guitar
Larry LaLonde – electric guitar
Tim "Herb" Alexander – drums


References

Kamaya Station
Kamaya Station (釜谷駅, Kamaya-eki) is a railway station on the South Hokkaido Railway Line in Kikonai, Hokkaido, Japan, operated by South Hokkaido Railway Company.


Lines
Kamaya Station is served by the 37.8 km South Hokkaido Railway Line between Goryōkaku and Kikonai.


Adjacent stations


History
Kamaya Station on the Esashi Line opened on 25 October 1930.
With the privatization of JNR on 1 April 1987, the station came under the control of JR Hokkaido.
Operations on the Esashi Line were transferred from JR Hokkaido to South Hokkaido Railway Company when the Hokkaido Shinkansen opened on 26 March 2016.


See also
List of railway stations in Japan


References

Andrico Hines
Andrico Hines (born December 10, 1980) is an American former professional football quarterback who played three seasons in the Arena Football League (AFL) with the Cleveland Gladiators and Pittsburgh Power.
He played college football at Middle Georgia College, Southwest Mississippi Community College, and Middle Tennessee State University.
Hines was also a member of the South Georgia Wildcats, Chattahoochee Valley Vipers, Spokane Shock, Bossier–Shreveport Battle Wings and Alabama Vipers.


Early life
Hines played high school football at Riverdale High School in Riverdale, Georgia, and was a four-year starter at quarterback.
He helped the Raiders to a 13–1 record as a senior and a berth in the semifinals of the state playoffs.
He was also named all-State, all-County and all-Region his senior year.
Hines set a state record with five touchdowns in a state playoff game.


College career
Hines first played college football for the Middle Georgia Warriors of Middle Georgia College.
He transferred to play for the Southwest Mississippi Bears of Southwest Mississippi Community College.
He was named to the Mississippi JUCO All-Star team in 2000.
Hines completed 101 of 158 pass attempts for 1,319 yards for 15 touchdowns and four interceptions.
He transferred to play for the Middle Tennessee Blue Raiders of Middle Tennessee State University from 2002 to 2003.
He recorded 13 touchdowns on 3,495 passing yards for the Blue Raiders.


Professional career
Hines played for the South Georgia Wildcats of the af2 during the 2005 season.
He played for the Chattahoochee Valley Vipers of the American Indoor Football League during the 2006 season.
He tore his ACL in the third game of the 2006 season.
Hines played for the Spokane Shock of the af2 in 2007.
He helped the Shock to the playoffs, completing 64% of his passes for over 2,800 yards while recording 62 touchdowns and 8 interceptions.
He played for the South Georgia Wildcats in 2008, recording 67 touchdown passes as the Wildcats won the AF2 south division title.
Hines played for the af2's Bossier–Shreveport Battle Wings in 2009, recording 76 touchdowns and 11 interceptions on 3,214 passing yards.
He was assigned to the Alabama Vipers of the AFL on November 30, 2009.
He left the Vipers on June 15, 2010 after refusing to report and being suspended by the team.
Hines signed with the Albany Panthers of the Southern Indoor Football League following his suspension from the Vipers.
He was assigned to the AFL's Cleveland Gladiators on June 2, 2011.
He completed 8 of 15 passes for 102 yards and two touchdowns as an AFL rookie for the Gladiators.
Hines was assigned to the Pittsburgh Power of the AFL on January 30, 2012.
He completed 134 of 224 passes for 1,640 yards and 30 touchdowns with seven interceptions for the Power in 2012.
He signed with the Cleveland Gladiators on May 30, 2013.
Hines appeared in one game for the Gladiators.
He was reassigned by the team on June 4, 2013.


References


External links
Stats Crew profile
College stats

Yorkey
Yorkey is a surname.
Notable people with the surname include:

Brian Yorkey (born 1970), American playwright and lyricist
John H.
Yorkey (1856–1907), American politician


See also
Yerkey
Yorkey Crossing
Yorkeys Knob, Queensland

Namibia Central Intelligence Service
The Namibia Central Intelligence Service (NCIS) is an agency of the Namibian government.
It is responsible for all intelligence services of Namibia and was established in June 1998 through Proclamation 12/1998 which enforced the Namibia Central Intelligence Service Act 10 of 1997.
The NCIS is headed by a director general.
Directors general of the NCIS have been:

Peter Tsheehama (1998–2005)
Lt.
Gen (rtd) Lucas Hangula (2005–2015)
Philemon Malima (2015–2020)
Benedictus Likando (2020–2025)
Rear Admiral (rtd) Sinsy Nghipandua (2025-)


References

Forstbotanischer Garten Eberswalde
The Forstbotanischer Garten Eberswalde (8 hectares) is a botanical garden and arboretum located at Am Zainhammer 5, Eberswalde, Brandenburg, Germany.
It is open daily without charge.
The garden was established in 1830 as part of the Royal Prussian Higher Forestry College by Friedrich Wilhelm Leopold Pfeil (1783-1859) with Wilhelm von Humboldt (1767-1835).
By 1835 its plant list included more than 600 types of trees.
Between 1868 and 1874, under the direction of Bernhard Danckelmann (1831-1901), the garden moved to its current location.
It was severely damaged during World War II but restored in subsequent years.
Today the garden contains over 1200 native and exotic trees and shrubs, with major sections including perennial flower beds; a root laboratory; alpine garden; African and East Asian gardens; trial garden; systematic garden; herb garden; and a Salicetum containing 230 types of willow trees.
A special feature is the garden's geological trail highlighting representative crystalline sedimentary rocks deposited in this location by ice age glaciers.


See also
List of botanical gardens in Germany


References
Forstbotanischer Garten Eberswalde Archived 2009-04-24 at the Wayback Machine
Garden map Archived 2009-12-13 at the Wayback Machine
Unterwegs in Brandenburg article
Wikimapia entry

Manius Aulius
Manius Aulius was prefect of the Roman allies, or socii, in 208 BC, during the Second Punic War.
While on a reconnaissance mission a small force of 220 horsemen, under the consuls Marcus Claudius Marcellus and Titus Quinctius Crispinus, the troop was ambushed by a much larger Carthaginian force consisting of Numidian cavalry, and nearly everyone—including Aulius and both consuls—was killed.


See also
Aulia gens


References


Bibliography
Titus Livius (Livy), History of Rome.
Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology, William Smith, ed., Little, Brown and Company, Boston (1849).
T.
Robert S.
Broughton, The Magistrates of the Roman Republic, American Philological Association (1952–1986).

Monterey Media
Monterey Media Inc.
(formerly The Monterey Movie Company) is an American independent film distribution company founded in 1979 by Scott Mansfield.
The company also had a home video company named Monterey Video in 1982, and was initially financed by Noel C.
Bloom, and the titles were distributed by the Family Home Entertainment subsidiary of Caballero Control Corporation.
Monterey is the second sub-label of NCB Entertainment, after FHE.
In 1987, Len Levy moved to Fries Home Video, an upstart distributor, taking its Monterey line with them, after cutting ties with International Video Entertainment, which received all 53 titles after five years.
That year, in October, the Monterey Movie Company had signed a 22-title agreement with Forum Home Video, to launch its new Phoenix Video label and Scott Mansfield will provide the package, with Forum Home Video handling U.S.
distribution of its titles, and the cassettes would range from $19.98-34.98.
After many years the company has now expanded from home video into independent theatrical distribution, film festivals, and other venues including television, digital delivery, and home entertainment markets.
Its first release was Deadly Games, a film made by Mansfield, who then released more titles under the Monterey label; early releases included a Dorsey Burnette tribute concert, a Sandahl Bergman aerobic dance video, Dynamite Chicken, a concert by The Tubes, Oh, Alfie!, The Werewolf of Washington, Can She Bake a Cherry Pie?, And Nothing But the Truth, Tomorrow, The Children of Sanchez, and Autumn Born.
The company was also the exclusive distributor for All Grateful Dead concert videos/ DVDs for over 20 years, including The Grateful Dead Movie and Dead Ahead.
Currently, they distribute their films at festivals and events, in theaters, and on DVD and VOD, including feature films, documentaries, self-help videos, and PBS programs.
In 2019, Monterey was acquired by BayView Entertainment.


Selected theatrical releases

10 Questions for the Dalai Lama
Childless (2015)
A Farewell to Fools (2014)
Approaching Midnight (2013)
A Beautiful Now (2015)
Between Us (2012)
The Blue Butterfly
Bracelet of Bordeaux (2009)
Bringing Up Bobby (2012)
Canopy (2013)
The Cellar Door (2008)
The Citizen (2013)
The Cry (2008)
Endgame (2010)
The Endless Summer (1966)
Eye of the Dolphin (2007)
Girl on a Bicycle (2014)
The Girl on the Train (2013)
Gooby (2009)
Half of a Yellow Sun (2014)
Harvest (2011)
Hey Hey It's Esther Blueburger (2010)
Home (2009)
How to Be a Serial Killer (2009)
Humble Pie (2007)
I Am Comic (2010)
I Kissed a Vampire (2012)
Karla (2007)
Keyhole (2012)
The Kitchen (2012)
Leonie (2013)
The Lesser Blessed (2009)
Local Color (2009)
Looking for Palladin (2011)
Lovely, Still (2012)
Meadowoods (2010)
No God, No Master (2014)
Nobelity (2006)
One Peace at a Time (2009)
Peel: The Peru Project (2006)
The Red Baron (2008)
Redwood Highway (2014)
Restitution (2011)
Ripple Effect (2007)


References


External links
Official website

Canton of Boulogne-sur-Mer-Nord-Est
The canton of Boulogne-sur-Mer-Nord-Est is a former canton situated in the department of the Pas-de-Calais and in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais region of northern France.
It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015.
It consisted of 5 communes, which joined the canton of Boulogne-sur-Mer-1 in 2015.
It had a total of 18,864 inhabitants (2012, without double counting).


Geography
The canton was organised around Boulogne-sur-Mer in the arrondissement of Boulogne-sur-Mer.
The altitude varied from 0m to 110m in Boulogne-sur-Mer for an average altitude of 21m.
The canton comprised 5 communes:

Boulogne-sur-Mer (partly)
Conteville-lès-Boulogne
Pernes-lès-Boulogne
Pittefaux
Wimille


See also
Cantons of Pas-de-Calais
Communes of Pas-de-Calais
Arrondissements of the Pas-de-Calais department


References

Mona (opera)
Mona is an opera in three acts by composer Horatio Parker with an English libretto by Brian Hooker.
The opera premiered at the Metropolitan Opera on 14 March 1912 after the work won the Met's composition competition in 1911.


Roles


Sources
usopera.com

2011 Northern Ireland Youth Soccer Tournament
The 2011 Northern Ireland Milk Cup is the twenty-ninth edition of the international football tournament which takes place annually in the north coast of Northern Ireland, and attracts competitors from across the globe.
There are three sections to the tournament, the Elite Section (U19), the Premier Section (U17) and the Junior Section (U15).
The defending champions are the USA, Etoile Lusitana and Chelsea respectively.
The Elite section has six teams in 2011, with each team playing two group matches on the Monday and Wednesday.
The top two teams in the table after the group stage compete in the final on Friday evening, with the remaining teams playing off for final standings earlier that day.
The Junior and Premier sections are to be contested by 24 and 20 teams respectively this year.
Each team plays once on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday as part of a single league, from which the top 4 teams qualify for the Milk Cup semi-finals.
The remainder of the teams qualify for lower-level cups (namely the Milk Globe, Vase, Bowl and Plate) that run alongside the Milk Cup based on their final league position, with semi-finals on Thursday, and the finals and play-off matches on Friday.
In 2011 for the second time the finals night will be held at the Ballymena Showgrounds, rather than the traditional venue of the Coleraine Showgrounds.

Elite – Under 19s – national sides
Premier – Under 17s – club sides and national sides
Junior – Under 15s – club sides and national sides
Clubs and national teams from anywhere in the world may compete on invitation, and five continents will be represented - Europe, North America, South America, Africa and Asia.
The tournament is also continuing its tradition of allowing the host nation's youth to play against top opposition through six select teams from each county of Northern Ireland


Venues
  


Elite Section


Group stage


5th Place Playoff


3rd Place Playoff


Final


Premier Section

Teams ranked 1–4 qualify for Milk Cup Semi-FinalsTeams ranked 5–8 qualify for NIMC Globe Semi-FinalsTeams ranked 9–12 qualify for NIMC Vase Semi-FinalsTeams ranked 13–16 qualify for NIMC Bowl Semi-FinalsTeams ranked 17–20 qualify for NIMC Plate Semi-Finals


Group stage


Monday 25 July


Tuesday 26 July


Wednesday 27 July


Thursday 28 July

Vrapče (Vogošća)
Vrapče is a village in Vogošća municipality, near Sarajevo, Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina.


Demographics
According to the 2013 census, its population was nil, down from 59 in 1991.


References

Frank W. Ikle
Frank William Ikle (1921–2015) was a Swiss-American historian and history educator.
He was professor of history at the University of New Mexico.


About
Born in Zürich, Switzerland, to Martin W.
Ikle and Helen Prichystal, Ikle studied Asian Studies and History at the University of California at Berkeley, earning his BA in 1941 and PhD in 1953.
In 1944 he married Maurine Barnes, with whom he had three children.


Career
Ikle served in the United States Naval Reserve Pacific Fleet as Lt.
Commander and Japanese language officer in naval intelligence from 1942 to 1946.
He then taught in the United States: at Reed College (1950–1954); Harvard University (Carnegie Fellow, 1951–1952); Fulbright lecturer, University of the Philippines (1955–1956); Miami University of Ohio (1957–1963).
In 1963 be took the position of Professor of History at the University of New Mexico (he was Professor of the Year, 1969), and was visiting professor at the University of Zurich (1962) and University of Hong Kong (1975).
He  was a member of the American Historical Association, the Association of Asian Studies, the American Association of University Professors.
He also served on the New Mexico Humanities Council Bicentennial Commission.


Publications
German-Japanese Relations 1936–1940 (New York: Bookman, 1956).
Japanese-German peace negotiations during World War I (Washington: American Historical Association, 1965)
"The conversion of the Alani by the Franciscan missionaries in China in the fourteenth century", ASJ 5:2 (1967)
"Sir Aurel Stein : a Victorian geographer in the tracks of Alexander", Isis, vol.
59 (1968), pp.
144–55.
(with Woodbridge Bingham and Hilary Conroy) Southwest Asia : a brief history (Berkeley, CA, 1956)
(with Woodbridge Bingham and Hilary Conroy), A history of Asia (Boston: Allyn and Bacon, 1974)


References

Kang Ugyu
Kang Ugyu (Korean: 강우규; Hanja: 姜宇奎, April 20, 1855 – November 29, 1920) was a doctor of Korean medicine and a fighter for Korean independence during the Japanese colonial period.
In 1919, Kang tried to assassinate Saitō Makoto, who was serving as the Governor-General of Korea, but failed.


Life and career


Early life and educational activities
Kang was born in Tokchon, Pyongan Province, Joseon.
He spent his childhood in Jinju and Miryang, both in Gyeongsang Province.
Kang studied Korean medicine from a young age after returning home to Tokchon in Pyongan Province.
In 1884, he moved to Hongwon, Hamgyong Province, where he served as a Korean medicine doctor while teaching children Neo-Confucianism.
He reportedly fled there as his personal security was jeopardized because he was involved in Korean patriotic movements.
Kang reportedly went to Hongwon with a large sum of money, and engaged in commerce there.
He ran a general merchandise store with his son Jung Geon on Nammun Street in the center of Hongwon.
The store mainly sold paint, cigarettes, and cotton thread.
At the same time, he lent traders money at low interest.


Exile
Following the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1905, and the annexation of Korea and its colonial rule by Japan following the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1910, Kang was deeply angered.
At the time, he was a middle-aged man over 50.
In the fall of 1910, Kang decided to seek asylum and moved members of his family to Khabarovsk.
He himself left Hongwon and went into exile in Dudogu, northern Gando (Jiandao), Manchuria, in the spring of 1911, where he ran a herbal medicine shop.
In 1915, he moved to Yo-dong in Liaohe County, Jilin, and traveled to and from Vladivostok to work for independence.
He reclaimed farmland around Yoha to build Shinheungchon, a Korean village.
The village later became the main base for independence forces operating in Siberia and North Manchuria.
In 1917, Kang founded Gwandong Middle School in Tonghua County, Jilin Province, Northeast China.
He worked hard to promote the spirit of independence by educating his fellow countrymen.
As a Christian Presbyterian, he worked in the school of the church, using his position to promote anti-Japanese sentiment among students and Koreans living nearby.
Kang condemned Japanese war crimes when teaching the students.
He occasionally gathered villagers in the school auditorium to promote national consciousness.
In the March First Movement in 1919, Kang gathered students and their compatriots at Gwandong School.
He organized the independence movement with a focus on Yeohyeon.
Kang did not believe that a simple independence movement would lead to the independence of his country, so he went to Vladivostok, where Lee Dong-hwi was active.
He served as chief of Yo Ha-yeon's branch in the Senior Citizen's Association with Lee Seung-kyo, Lee Dong-hwi's father.


Infiltration into Korea, attempted assassination
In 1919, Kang handed over Gwandong Middle School and Shinheungchon village to a Korean American before sneaking back into Japanese-occupied Korea.
He bought a grenade from a Russian and infiltrated into Keijō (as Seoul was then called), via Wonsan, with Huh Hyung.
He hid the grenade from Japanese police by wearing it between his legs in a diaper.
On September 2, 1919, due to internal and external strife, Japanese admiral Saitō Makoto had been appointed to replace Hasegawa Yoshimichi as the governor-general.
On the day Saitō arrived Korea, Kang attempted to assassinate Saitō by throwing a bomb at him.
The explosion missed Saito but injured several onlookers.
The El Paso Herald reported that twenty were injured including an American, a relative of former Chicago Mayor Carter Harrison Sr., who coincidentally had been assassinated in 1893.
After the failed assassination attempt, Kang went into hiding.
According to Oh Tae-young, Kang hid in Jang Ik-kyu and Lim Seung-hwa's house.
He was later caught by Kim Tae-seok and jailed on September 17.
Five others were also arrested in connection to the bomb attack.


Death
Kang was sentenced to death for attempted murder and a charge of civilian casualties.
Even after his death sentence was confirmed, Kang read the Bible every day, prayed in the morning and evening, and waited for his last day with a relaxed mind.
While in prison, Kang told his sons: "Don't do anything about my death.
I feel rather ashamed that I have done nothing for my country all my life.
It is the education of our young people that I cannot forget even when I'm sleeping.
If my death give a little impetus to the minds of the young people, that's what I wish for." Informally, he told them to spread his will to schools and churches across the country.
Kang was hanged on November 29, 1920.
He never renounced his beliefs and was defiant until his death.
After the attack the Japanese increased the Korean police presence in the region from 12,000 to 20,000 members.


After death

Kang's remains were first buried at a cemetery in Sinsa-dong, Eunpyeong District.
They were later moved to Suyu-ri, Jindo in 1954 and to the Seoul National Cemetery in 1967.
In March 1962, Kang was posthumously awarded the Order of Merit for National Foundation.
A Chinese poem written in Kang's will just before his execution at Seodaemun Prison was preserved in the Independence Hall of Korea.


Legacy

"I don't feel bad about it, If you change your stance, Kang Ugyu was predominant." said Chiba, the police chief in Gyeonggi Province.

Kang Ugyu was the first violent resister against Japanese occupation after the March First Movement.
It was a great warning to Saitō and also contributed greatly to promoting awareness among Koreans at home and abroad.
By holding steadfast in the face of injustice, life in prison, and execution, Kang inspired Koreans who were still involved in the independence movement.
There is a statue of Kang at Seoul Station Plaza.


References

George Carey (Lord Deputy)
Sir George Carey (or Cary; c. 1541 – 15 February 1616), JP, DL, of Cockington in the parish of Tor Mohun in Devon, England, was Lord Deputy of Ireland from May 1603 to February 1604.
He should not be confused with his near namesake and second cousin Sir George Carew, later Earl of Totnes, who also held posts in Ireland at the same period.


Origins
He was the eldest son and heir of Thomas Cary (died 1567) lord of the manor of Cockington, by his wife Mary Southcott, a daughter of John Southcott of Indio, Bovey Tracey, Devon, who was a clerk of the peace.
Thomas Cary's Easter Sepulchre type monument survives in St Saviour's Church, Tor Mohun.
Thomas Cary was the second son of Robert Cary (died 1540), lord of the manor of Clovelly in Devon.


Career
After education at the Inner Temple (1558), Cary became captain of the Devon militia by 1572, a Justice of the peace from c.
1579, and deputy lieutenant from 1587.
He was Member of Parliament for Dartmouth in 1586, and for the county seat of Devon in 1588.
He was treasurer-at-war to Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex during his campaign in Ireland in 1599 and was appointed a Lord Justice in September 1599 (when Essex left the country) and again, in 1603 (on the departure of Charles Blount, 8th Baron Mountjoy).
In 1601, Cary was responsible for the introduction of a newly debased Irish coinage and was accused in the Exchequer of Pleas of enriching himself in the process.
Although the case was prolonged for several years nothing was ultimately proven, which may explain the words free from all filthy fraud that are inscribed on Isaac Oliver's miniature portrait of him (illustrated above).


Marriages and children

Cary married twice:
Firstly in about 1561, to Wilmota Giffard (1540/1–1581), daughter and sole heiress of John Giffard of Yeo Vale, Alwington, North Devon, and step-daughter of Robert Cary (died 1586) of Clovelly, Devon, half-uncle to Sir George Cary.
Cary was her second husband; she was previously the wife of John Bury (1540–1574) of Colleton in the parish of Chulmleigh, Devon, whom she had married when both parties were aged only 13, and contrary to ecclesiastical law.
Bury was said by Pole to have been "simple", and the couple were divorced in 1560 by Matthew Parker, Archbishop of Canterbury.
Her monumental brass survives in St Saviour's Church, Tor Mohun.
Its inscription states that she had two sons and three daughters by Carey.
These included:

Thomas Cary, died childless;
Sir George Cary, killed in the Irish Wars and stated by Risdon (died 1640) to have been "a great commander in the wars".
He predeceased his father and died childless;
Jana Cary, died childless;
Anna Cary, first wife of Sir Richard Edgcumbe (1571–1639) of Mount Edgcumbe, Cornwall, MP for Grampound and Bossiney.
She also died childless.
Secondly Cary married Lettice Rich, a daughter of Robert Rich, 1st Earl of Warwick (1559–1619), they had no children; she remarried to Sir Arthur Lake, MP.


Succession
As his own children all died without issue, his heir to Cockington was his nephew George Cary, the fifth son of his younger brother John Cary of Dudley, Staffordshire, and husband of Elizabeth Seymour, a daughter of Sir Edward Seymour, 1st Baronet (died 1613), of Berry Pomeroy in Devon, grandson of Edward Seymour, 1st Duke of Somerset, Lord Protector and uncle of King Edward VI.


Quartered arms

The arms of Sir George Cary, of four quarters, as displayed on the monumental brass to his first wife and on his father's monument, are as follows:

1st: Argent, on a bend sable three roses of the field (Cary, with a crescent for the difference of a second son);
2nd: Or, three piles in point azure (Bryan of Tor Bryan, Devon, for Jane de Bryan, a daughter and co-heiress of Sir Guy de Bryan (died 1396) of Tor Bryan, Devon, wife of Sir John Cary;
3rd: Gules, a fess between three crescents argent (Holleway of Holway in North Lew, for Margaret Holleway, daughter and heiress of Robert Holleway, wife of Sir John Cary (d.1395) (son of Margaret de Bryan), Chief Baron of the Exchequer);
4th: Azure, a chevron argent between three pears pendant or (de Orchard), Sir Philip Cary (died 1437) of Cockington (great-grandfather of Thomas Cary (died 1567) married Christiana Orchard, daughter and heiress of William Orchard of Orchard in Somerset.


Notes


References


Sources
Willis, Browne (1750).
Notitia Parliamentaria, Part II:  A Series or Lists of the Representatives in the several Parliaments held from the Reformation 1541, to the Restoration 1660 ...
London.
p.
1.
Pole, Sir William (died 1635), Collections Towards a Description of the County of Devon, Sir John-William de la Pole (ed.), London, 1791.
Vivian, Lt.Col.
J.L., (Ed.) The Visitations of the County of Devon: Comprising the Heralds' Visitations of 1531, 1564 & 1620.
Exeter, 1895.

New Burlington Galleries
The New Burlington Galleries was an art gallery at 5 Burlington Gardens, Mayfair, London.
From 11 June to 4 July 1936, they held the International Surrealist Exhibition, the first full exhibition of surrealist art in the UK.
From 7 June to 28 August 1938, the gallery showed Twentieth Century German Art, the largest international response to the National Socialist campaign against so-called ‘degenerate art’.
In October 1938, they exhibited Picasso's Guernica together with preparatory paintings and sketches to raise funds for the National Joint Committee for Spanish Relief.


References

2002 WUSA Founders Cup
The 2002 WUSA Founders Cup, also known as Founders Cup II, was the second championship match in Women's United Soccer Association history, played between the Carolina Courage and the Washington Freedom to decide the champion of the league's inaugural season.
The game was played at Herndon Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia on August 24, 2002, with 15,321 in attendance.
The Carolina Courage defeated the Freedom 3–2.
Carolina midfielder Birgit Prinz was named player of the match for scoring the winning goal and assisting on another.
She had won the UEFA Women's Cup with 1.
FFC Frankfurt earlier in the year and scored in the final.


Pre-match
Ticket prices for the final started at $15 and were also available at $30 and $45, with a discount for group purchases.
The game was broadcast live to a national audience via PAX TV in the United States and several other countries.


Match


References

Ann (1801 ship)
Ann was launched at Rotherhithe in the River Thames in 1801.
She made eight voyages for the British East India Company (EIC) as an "extra ship", i.e., under charter, between 1801 and 1817.
After 1817 she traded with India for some time and she was last listed in 1826.


Career


EIC voyage #1 (1801-1802)
Captain Alexander Sinclair acquired a letter of marque on 10 August 1801.
Sinclair sailed from Portsmouth on 9 September, bound for Madras and Bengal.
Ann was part of a convoy under escort by HMS Seahorse that also included General Stuart, Manship, Sarah Christiana, Northampton, Sovereign, Caledonia, Comet, Princess Mary, Varuna, Carron, Elizabeth, Monarch, and Friendship.
The convoy reached Madeira on 23 September, and left the next day.
Ann reached Madras on 4 February 1802, and arrived at Calcutta on 5 March.
Homeward bound, she was at Kedgeree on 25 May, reached St Helena on 17 September, and arrived at Long Reach on 26 November.


EIC voyage #2 (1803-1805)
Captain Thomas Price acquired a letter of marque on 11 June 1803.
He sailed from Plymouth on 17 July, bound for Madras and Bombay.
Ann was at Rio de Janeiro on 23 September, and arrived at Madras on 2 February 1804.
She was at Bombay on 25 May, reached St Helena on 4 November, and arrived at Long Reach on 11 February 1805.


EIC voyage #3 (1805-1807)
Captain James Masson sailed from the Downs on 7 June 1805, bound for Madras and Bengal.
Ann stopped at Cork on 31 August.
She was at Madeira on 29 September and Fernando de Noronha on 20 November, together with Tigris; Ann arrived at Madras on 2 March 1806.
She then arrived at Diamond Harbour on 5 April.
Homeward bound, she was at Saugor on 20 September and Madras on 10 October.
She reached the Cape of Good Hope on 31 December and St Helena on 24 January 1807, before arriving at Purfleet on 15 April.


EIC voyage #4 (1807-1809)
Captain Masson sailed from Portsmouth on 15 September 1807, bound for Madras and Bengal.
Ann was at Madeira on 28 September.
 She was reported well on 28 November at 30°10′S 5°20′W.
She was in convoy with Northampton, Sarah Christiana, Union, Diana, Sir William Pulteney, and Glory.
Their escort was the 64-gun third rate HMS Monmouth.
Ann arrived at Madras on 17 February 1808.
She then reached Calcutta  on 18 March.
Homeward bound, she was at Diamond Harbour on 23 August, and again at Madras on 9 September.
She reached the Cape on 19 January 1809 and St Helena on 25 February, and arrived at Long Reach on 24 May.


EIC voyage #5 (1810-1811)
Captain Peter Cameron sailed from Portsmouth on 13 April 1810, bound for Madras and Bengal.
Ann was at Madeira on 17 May and arrived at Madras on 13 October.
She then reached Calcutta on 20 November.
Homeward bound, she was at Saugor on 29 December and Vizagapatam on 31 January 1811, and again at Madras on 26 February.
She reached St Helena on 16 June, and arrived at Long Reach on 2 September.


EIC voyage #6 (1812-1813)
Captain Cameron sailed from Portsmouth on 8 April 1812, bound for Madras and Bengal.
Ann was at Madeira on 23 April and arrived at Madras on 16 September.
She then reached Calcutta on 3 November.
Homeward bound, she was at Saugor on 21 January 1813.
She was at Mauritius on 4 May, reached St Helena on 3 August, and arrived at Blackwall on 10 November.


EIC voyage #7 (1814-1815)
Captain Cameron sailed from Portsmouth on 8 June 1814, bound for Bengal and Bencoolen.
Ann was at Madeira on 23 June and arrived at Diamond Harbour on 1 December.
She reached Bencoolen on 16 March 1815.
Homeward bound, she reached St Helena on 14 July, and arrived at Blackwall on 20 September.


EIC voyage #8 (1816-1817)
(8) 1815/6 Bombay.
Captain James Masson sailed from the Downs on 19 May 1816, bound for Bombay.
Ann was at Madeira on  31 May Madeira and arrived at Bombay on 22 September.
Homeward bound, she was at Cochin on 31 December, reached the Cape on 19 February 1817 and St Helena on 14 March, and arrived at Northfleet on 29 May.


Post-EIC
Some reports have Ann being sold in 1817 for breaking up.
 However, she appears to have continued in the India trade, sailing under a license from the EIC.
Ann, of 600 tons (bm), River-built in 1801, appeared in Lloyd's Register for 1818 with Reynolds, master, Masson & Co., owner, and trade London–India.
The 1819 volume showed her master changing from Reynolds to Thacker.
She appears in the 1820 volume with Thatcher, master, and Mason, owner.
In late 1819 the government appointed Captain Francis Augustus Collier of Liverpool to command the naval portion of a joint navy-army punitive expedition against the Joasmi (Al Qasimi) pirates at Ras al-Khaimah in the Persian Gulf.
The naval force consisted of Liverpool, Eden, Curlew, several EIC cruisers including HCS Aurora, and a number of gun and mortar boats.
There were also a large number of transports to carry troops and supplies.
One of the transports was an Ann.

After the British destroyed Ras-al-Khaima, they then spent the rest of December and early January moving up and down the coast destroying forts and vessels.
The capture and destruction of the fortifications and ships in the port was a massive blow for the Gulf pirates.
British casualties were minimal.


Fate
Ann was last listed in Lloyd's Register in 1821 with Thatcher, master, W.
Masson, owner, and trade London–Bombay.
She  was last listed in the Register of Shipping in 1826, still with Thatcher, master, and Mason, owner.


Citations


References
Hackman, Rowan (2001).
Ships of the East India Company.
Gravesend, Kent: World Ship Society.
ISBN 0-905617-96-7.
Low, Charles Rathbone (1877).
History of the Indian Navy: (1613-1863).
R.
Bentley and son.

Neaporia becky
Neaporia becky is a species of beetle of the family Coccinellidae.
It is found in Trinidad.


Description
Adults reach a length of about 1.6–1.7 mm.
Adults are black with yellow antennae and mouthparts.
The lateral margin of the pronotum is also black.
The elytron is brown.


References

A cognitionibus
In Ancient Rome, a cognitionibus was one of the four offices in the chancellor's Imperial Rome office that helped the emperor in his judicial function.
It was a formal office function, like the ad legationes.
With the restoration in Hadrian's era, it is possible that the office a libellis dominated the other three: a cognitionibus, a studiis and a censibus.
A studiis was a documentation office, and a cognitionibus was the office that studied the process of the emperor's appeal.
A correspondence office (ab epistulis) and an office that controlled the Roman Empire's finances (a rationibus) existed.
In the Third century the offices of a libellis and a censibus or a libellis and a cognitionibus were merged.
Marcius Agrippa was a cognitionibus and ab epistulis of Caracalla.


Popular culture
The a cognitionibus appears in works of Cassius Dio and Philostratus performing a job that arranges the order of cases before the emperor and summoning litigants into the auditorium.


References


Bibliography

Salt in the Wound
Salt in the Wound (Italian: Il dito nella piaga) is a 1969 Italian "macaroni combat" war film directed by Tonino Ricci and starring Klaus Kinski and George Hilton.


Plot
Two condemned soldiers (Klaus Kinski and Ray Saunders) and their overseeing West Point officer (George Hilton) survive a German ambush on their way to execution.
They make their way to a desolate Italian village which happens to be in the path of a German advance.
While there they learn the meaning of self-sacrifice and courage when they become emotionally involved in the people and fortunes of the town and must defend the village from the invading German force.


Cast
George Hilton as Michael Sheppard
Klaus Kinski as Cpl.
Brian Haskins / Norman Carr
Ray Saunders as Pvt.
John Grayson / Calvin Mallory
Betsy Bell as Daniela
Ugo Adinolfi as American soldier
Piero Mazzinghi as Priest
Enrico Pagano as Mascetti
Roberto Pagano as The Little Michele
Giorgio De Giorgi as Captain
Angelo Susani as Sergeant


Releases
Wild East Productions released the film on a limited edition NTSC Region 0 DVD double feature with Churchill's Leopards in 2007.


References


External links
Salt in the Wound at IMDb

Michael John Keen
Michael John Keen (1935–1991) was a British geologist who was born in Seaford, Sussex and emigrated to Canada in 1961.
From 1961 to 1977, he was a professor at Dalhousie University in the Department of Geology.
He chaired the department for several years.
From 1977 to 1991, he was with the Geological Survey of Canada’s Atlantic Geoscience Centre in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia.


Honours
1986, awarded the Logan Medal by the Geological Association of Canada


Legacy
the Marine Geoscience Division of the Geological Association of Canada annually awards the Michael J.
Keen Medal to a scientist who has made a significant contribution to the field of marine or lacustrine geoscience.
Dalhousie University annually awards the Michael J.
Keen Memorial Award to a female student in the second year of the earth sciences programme.


Cited publications
Keen, M.J.
September 1968.
An Introduction to Marine Geology.
The Commonwealth and International library, Geophysics Division.
Keen, M.J., and Williams, G.L.(editors), 1990.
Geology of the continental margin of eastern Canada.
Geological Survey of Canada, Geology of Canada, no.
2 (also Geological Society of America, The Geology of North America, V.
I-1) 855p.


References

Douglas H. Johnson
Douglas Hamilton Johnson is an American scholar who lives in Britain who specialises in the history of North East Africa, Sudan and the Southern Sudan.


Work in the Sudan
Johnson worked to support the 2003 Sudan Comprehensive Peace Agreement negotiations over the Three Areas (Abyei, Nuba Mountains and Blue Nile).
In 2005 he was a member of the Abyei Boundary Commission, chaired by Donald K.
Petterson, with the task of settling the borders of Abyei, a district disputed between the Sudan and the newly self-governing South Sudan, and was one of the five independent experts tasked with presenting the Commission's final report.
Since then, he has advised the Government of South Sudan on North-South boundary issues.


Personal life
In 1977, Johnson married Wendy James, a British anthropologist and academic.
They have a son and a daughter.


Selected publications
South Sudan: A New History for a New Nation, Ohio University Press (Ohio Short Histories of Africa series), 2016, ISBN 978-0-8214-2242-7
“Decolonizing the Borders in Sudan: Ethnic Territories and National Development”, in Empire, Development and Colonialism: The Past in the Present, (Mark Duffield & Vernon Hewitt, eds), Woodbrige & Rochester NY: James Currey, 2009, ISBN 978-1-84701-011-7
“Tribe or Nationality?
 The Sudanese Diaspora and the Kenyan Nubis”, Journal of Eastern African Studies, Volume 3, Number 1, pp.
112–31, 2009
“Political Intelligence, Colonial Ethnography and Analytical Anthropology in the Sudan”, Ordering Africa: Anthropology, European Imperialism and the Politics of Knowledge (Helen Tilley & Robert Gordon, eds), Manchester: Manchester University Press, 2007 ISBN 978-0-7190-6239-1
“Darfur: Peace, Genocide and Crimes against Humanity in Sudan”, in Violence, Political Culture & Development in Africa (Preben Kaarsholm, ed), Oxford: James Currey, 2006, ISBN 978-0-85255-894-2
The Root Causes of Sudan's Civil Wars, James Currey: Oxford, 2003, ISBN 978-0-85255-392-3
Editor, "Series B, Volume 5 (Sudan)" in British Documents on the End of Empire, 1998
Part I 1942-1950 ISBN 0-11-290563-3
Part II 1951-1956, ISBN 0-11-290564-1
"The Sudan People’s Liberation Army and the Problem of Factionalism" in African Guerrillas (Christopher Clapham, ed).
Oxford: James Currey, 1998, ISBN 978-0-85255-815-7
Joanna Macrae, Mark Bradbury, Susanne Jaspars, Douglas Johnson & Mark Duffield, "Conflict, the Continuum and Chronic Emergencies: A Critical Analysis of the Scope for Linking Relief, Rehabilitation and Development Planning in Sudan" in Disasters, Volume 21 Issue 3, Pages 223 - 243, September 1997
Karim, Ataul, Mark Duffield, Susanne Jaspars, Aldo Benini, Joanna Macrae, Mark Bradbury, Douglas Johnson & George Larbi.
Operation Lifeline Sudan (OLS): a review (Geneva: Department of Humanitarian Affairs, 1996)
Wendy James, Gerd Baumann & Douglas Johnson, eds, Juan Maria Schuver's Travels in North East Africa, 1880-1883, London: The Hakluyt Society, 1996, ISBN 0-904180-34-4
Editor, C.A.
Willis, The Upper Nile Province Handbook: A Report on Peoples and Government in the Southern Sudan, 1931, Oriental and African Archives 3, Oxford: Oxford University Press for the British Academy, 1995, ISBN 978-0-19-726146-0
David M.
Anderson & Douglas H.
Johnson, eds, Revealing Prophets: Prophecy in Eastern African History, London: James Currey, 1995, ISBN 978-0-85255-718-1
Nuer Prophets: A History of Prophecy from the Upper Nile in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries, Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1994, ISBN 978-0-19-823367-1
Editor, Governing the Nuer: Documents by Percy Coriat on Nuer History and Ethnography, 1922-1931, Oxford: JASO, 1993, ISBN 1-870047-45-1
"Salim Wilson: The Black Evangelist of the North", Journal of Religion in Africa, Volume 21, Number 1, pp.
26–41, 1991
"Criminal Secrecy: The Case of the Zande 'Secret Societies'" in Past & Present, Volume 130, Number 1, pp.
170–200, 1991
“Political Ecology in the Upper Nile: The Twentieth Century Expansion of the Pastoral ‘Common Economy’”, Journal of African History, Volume 30, Number 3, pp.
463-86, 1989
Douglas H.
Johnson & David M.
Anderson, eds, The Ecology of Survival: Case Studies from Northeast African History, London: Lester Crook Academic Publishing, 1988, ISBN 1-870915-00-3
Wendy James & Douglas H.
Johnson, eds, Vernacular Christianity: Essays in the Social Anthropology of Religion, Oxford: JASO, 1988, ISBN 1-870047-30-3
"Sudanese Military Slavery from the Eighteenth to the Twentieth Century" in Slavery and Other Forms of Unfree Labour (Léonie J.
Archer, ed), London: Routledge, 1988 ISBN 0-415-00203-6
“On the Nilotic Frontier: Imperial Ethiopia in the Southern Sudan, 1898-1936”, in The Southern Marches of Imperial Ethiopia: Essays in History and Social Anthropology (D.
Donham & Wendy James, eds),  Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1986 (paperback Oxford: James Currey, 2002 ISBN 978-0-85255-794-5)
“The Death of Gordon: a Victorian Myth”, Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History, Volume 10, Number 2, pp.
285–310, 1982
“Tribal Boundaries and Border Wars: Nuer-Dinka Relations in the Sobat and Zaraf Valleys, c.
1860-1976”, Journal of African History, Volume 23, Number 2, pp.
183–203, 1982
"Evans-Pritchard, The Nuer, and the Sudan Political Service" in African Affairs, Volume 81, Number 323, pp.
231–246, 1982
"History and Prophecy among the Nuer of the Southern Sudan", PhD thesis, UCLA, University Microfilms International, Ann Arbor, Mich., 1980


References


External links
"SUDAN: Interview with Douglas Johnson, expert on the Abyei Boundary Commission", IRIN, 29 May 2006
"Douglas Johnson - Sudan's Civil Wars", hosted by Google Video, distributed by understandingsudan.org, 2006

Banksia obovata
Banksia obovata, commonly known as wedge-leaved dryandra, is a species of shrub that is endemic to Western Australia.
It has hairy stems, serrated, wedge-shaped to egg-shaped leaves with the lower end towards the base, cream-coloured or pale yellow flowers in heads of up to 100, and egg-shaped follicles.
It is found in near-coastal areas in the south of the state.


Description
Banksia obovata is a shrub that typically grows to a height of 2 m (6 ft 7 in) but does not form a lignotuber.
It has wedge-shaped to egg-shaped leaves with the narrower end at the base, 25–65 mm (0.98–2.56 in) long and 10–30 mm (0.39–1.18 in) wide on a petiole up to 15 mm (0.59 in) long, with between four and twelve serrations on each side.
Between thirty-five and one hundred cream-coloured or pale yellow flowers are borne in a head with linear to egg-shaped involucral bracts up to 12 mm (0.47 in) long at the base of the head.
The perianth is 23–38 mm (0.91–1.50 in) long and the pistil 24–40 mm (0.94–1.57 in) long.
Flowering mainly occurs from April to November, but also in other months and the follicles are egg-shaped, 10–14 mm (0.39–0.55 in) long.


Taxonomy and naming
This species was first formally described in 1810 by Robert Brown in Transactions of the Linnean Society of London and was given the name Dryandra cuneata.
The specific epithet (cuneata) is a Latin word meaning wedge-shaped.
In 2007, Austin Mast and Kevin Thiele transferred all dryandras to the genus Banksia.
As there was already a plant named Banksia cuneata (matchstick banksia), Mast and Thiele chose the epithet obovata, meaning "inverted egg-shaped, in reference to the obovate leaves.


Distribution and habitat
Wedge-leaved dryandra occurs near the south coast of Western Australia between Narrogin, Albany and the Cape Arid National Park, including in the Stirling Range.
It grows in kwongan.


References

Cavanagh, Tony and Margaret Pieroni (2006).
The Dryandras.
Melbourne: Australian Plants Society (SGAP Victoria); Perth: Wildflower Society of Western Australia.
ISBN 1-876473-54-1.

BTV Radio
bTV Radio is a Bulgarian radio station, part of bTV Radio Group, owned by the Central European Media Enterprises (owned by WarnerMedia/AT&T).
It started broadcasting on May 1, 2009, in Sofia, and later launched in Pernik and Gotse Delchev.
Its program is also transmitted via satellite across Europe.
The station was originally launched as a radio program of the television station PRO.BG - PRO.FM.
In October 2011, it was re-branded as the eponymous radio station of the television channel bTV, transmitting much of the television output.
The radio broadcasts exclusively in Sofia.


Logos history


References

Reynolds v. United States (2012)
Reynolds v.
United States  565 U.S.
432 (2012) is a Supreme Court case regarding sex offender registration prior to enactment of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act.


References


External links
Text of Reynolds v.
United States, 565 U.S.
432 (2012) is available from: CourtListener  Justia  Oyez (oral argument audio)

Nothing Less Than an Archangel
Nothing Less Than an Archangel (Spanish: Nada menos que un arkángel) is a 1960 Spanish comedy film directed by Jaime D'Ors, Antonio del Amo and Esteban Madruga.


Cast
Manuel Aroca
Inocencio Barbán
Roberto Camardiel
Félix Fernández
Elisa Hernandez
Guillermo Hidalgo
José Isbert as Don Fabián
Archibald L.
Lyall
José Moratalla
Enrique Núñez
Pedro Oliver
Amelia Ortas
Marisa Prado as La joven Americana
José Riesgo
Santiago Rivero
Luis Roses
Conrado San Martín as Paco
Antonio Vela as Boy with glasses in seaport with the tractor


References


Bibliography
de España, Rafael.
Directory of Spanish and Portuguese film-makers and films.
Greenwood Press, 1994.


External links
Nothing Less Than an Archangel at IMDb

Magomed Musaev (businessman)
Magomed Musaev (Russian: Магомед Мусаев; born 13 June 1963) is an international entrepreneur, venture capitalist and impact investor, philanthropist, founder and president of the Global Venture Alliance (GVA) investment fund, creator of the Sapiens Impact global impact community, one of the founders of the ImpactFuture investment company.


Career
Musaev was born June 13 1963 in Tlyarosh, Charodinsky district, Dagestan ASSR, USSR.
He graduated from Dagestan State Medical University, I.M.
Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University (PhD), Higher School of Privatization and Entrepreneurship, Plekhanov Russian University of Economics.
Between 2004 and 2009 Musaev was retrieving the position of General Director of the All-Russian Exhibition Center (VVC), was the head of the Directorate and Executive Secretary of the National Organizing Committee for the Promotion of the candidacy of the Russian Federation as the organizer of EXPO-2010, and later worked in the Moscow government.
In 2009, he was fired due to the owner’s dissatisfied with the financial results of Musaev's work.
An inspection by the Prosecutor General's Office was initiated.
The inspection concentrated on the allegations that part of the rental income of exhibition premises was transferred to the account of the All-Russian Exhibition Center "not quite legally or not received at all".
In 2011, Magomed Musaev founded and headed the Global Venture Alliance (GVA), which implements projects in the field of corporate innovation, startup acceleration, venture fund management and operates in more than 20 countries, including implementing projects in Silicon Valley.
In August 2018, Magomed Musaev purchased the Russian version of Forbes, in 2021 Business Insight Media, owned by the family of Magomed Musaev, signed a license agreement with Harvard Business School Publishing to bring out the digital type of the Russian version of the Harvard Business Review (HBR) magazine.
According to political expert Eduard Urazaev, Magomed Musaev's decision to buy the Russian edition of the Forbes magazine was driven by political rather than business interests as leverage against alleged law enforcement inquests into his father-in-law Ramazan Abdulatipov.
In 2020 Magomed Musaev created Sapiens Impact as a global impact community aimed to amass and deploy $1 trillion worth of capital to address global challenges.
In 2021, Magomed Musaev and his partners announced the creation of the ImpactFuture investment company, a platform investing in the development and implementation of innovative solutions to large-scale social problems.


Personal life
His wife is Zaira Abdulatipova.
They have three children — a son and two daughter.
He is a consistent supporter and practitioner of the ancient Chinese philosophy of qigong.
Father-in-law — Ramazan Gadzhimuradovich Abdulatipov, ex-head of the Republic of Dagestan.


References


External links
Magomed Musaev on Forbes Russia.
Magomed Musaev on Global Venture Alliance.

Mark Kendall (footballer, born 1961)
Mark Ivan Kendall (born 10 December 1961) is an English former professional footballer who played in the Football League for Northampton Town and Birmingham City.
He played as a goalkeeper.


Career
Kendall was born in Nuneaton, Warwickshire, and attended Polesworth School.
He joined Aston Villa in 1976.
Kendall played in Aston Villa's youth teams which lost in the final of the 1978 FA Youth Cup final but were winners two years later.
While with Aston Villa, Kendall was capped for England at youth level, and played 18 games for the reserves, but never appeared for the first team.
He joined Fourth Division club Northampton Town on a free transfer in 1982.
He played 11 times in the Football League for Northampton, and moved on to Birmingham City of the First Division in March 1984 as cover for Tony Coton.
He played once in the 1983–84 season, deputising for Coton in a game at home to Arsenal which resulted in a 1–1 draw.
After leaving Birmingham Kendall joined Tamworth, where he contributed to the club's winning the West Midlands (Regional) League title in 1988.
After Tamworth he went on play for a number of non-league teams, mostly in the Midlands area, including Mile Oak Rovers, Hitchin Town, Worcester City, Atherstone Town, Bedworth United, Willenhall and Polesworth North Warwick.
Kendall has coached the Tamworth Junior League XI, and has represented former club Birmingham City in Masters football.


Honours
with Aston Villa

FA Youth Cup winners: 1980
FA Youth Cup runners-up: 1978
with Tamworth

West Midlands (Regional) League champions: 1987–88


References

Don Lennon
Don Lennon is an independent musician from Massachusetts.


Early life
Little personal information is known about Lennon.
Several interviewers have implied that his name is a pseudonym.
His style is often compared to that of Beat Happening, The Magnetic Fields and most notably fellow New Englander Jonathan Richman.


Career
Lennon was the guitarist and singer of the Boston-based band The Umpteens (sometimes, incorrectly, "The Endless Upteens" ).
Shortly after the group's breakup in 1997, Lennon recorded his first solo album, Maniac.
Many of the songs were originally played by The Umpteens.
His website states that some of these songs were written as early as 1993.
Two recurring themes throughout the album are parties ("Party Coordinator," "Party In September" and "Party All The Time") and friends ("Best Friends Forever" and "I Need Friends").
Don Lennon, a quasi-autobiographical album, came in 1999.
Much of the album's lyrical content spoke about the musician's trials and tribulations in previous years while playing concerts promoting Maniac.
Downtown was released in 2002 on the independent label Secretly Canadian.
The record dealt with the music industry, name checking Dave Matthews Band, Lenny Kravitz, The Mekons, Bongwater and John Cale (of The Velvet Underground).
Bizarrely, Secretly Canadian soon after began distancing itself from Lennon and the album, eventually removing it as a release from its catalog (although it was originally SC #62).
2005 saw the release of Lennon's fourth full-length album, Routine.
The subject matter dealt primarily with stand-up comedy and the construction of a comedian's routine, but also focused on Monster.com, John Ritter and trust funds.
NPR's John Brady cited the album as one of the three best records of 2005, while Sweden's prominent Digfi magazine rated it the number one.


Discography
Maniac (Martin Philip, 1997)
Don Lennon (Martin Philip, 1999)
Downtown (Secretly Canadian/Martin Philip, 2002)
Routine (Martin Philip, 2005)
Ich Heisse Don (Popfrenzy, 2005)
Radical (Martin Philip, 2006)
Nick and Mary (2010)


References


External links
Don Lennon's official site
December 12, 2002 interview with The Boston Phoenix

William J. Hovde
William Johnston Hovde (4 April 1917 – 13 March 1996) was a United States Air Force colonel and a World War II flying ace.
Hovde served two tours in the 355th Fighter Group and commanded the 358th Fighter Squadron, ending the war with 10.5 victories.
He also served in the Korean War, claiming another victory while in command of the 335th Fighter Squadron.
After serving as an attaché in Mexico, Hovde commanded Ethan Allen Air Force Base and the 14th Fighter Group.
He retired in 1967, and worked in the liquor business before finally retiring and moving to San Antonio.
Hovde became president of the American Fighter Aces Association.


Early life
Hovde was born on 4 April 1917 in Crookston, Minnesota to Ole, a Norwegian immigrant salesman, and Lou Hovde.
He graduated from Central High School there in 1935 and attended the University of North Dakota between 1936 and 1938, receiving a freshman scholarship award.


Military service

He enlisted in the Minnesota National Guard on 1 September 1932 and served with the 205th Infantry until separating from the military on 17 April 1937.
He then joined the university ROTC program.
Hovde successfully applied for the United States Military Academy and attended the Silverman Preparatory School in New York City after receiving his appointment to West Point.
Hovde was entered as a cadet at West Point in July 1939.
At West Point, he participated in athletics, including boxing.


World War II

Hovde entered pilot training and received his wings on 13 December 1942.
He was commissioned into the United States Army Air Forces as a second lieutenant on 19 January 1943.
He completed Republic P-47 Thunderbolt training at Spence Field.
In May, he was assigned to the 358th Fighter Squadron, 355th Fighter Group in England, serving as a flight leader.
The squadron deployed to England in July at RAF Steeple Morden.
On 15 February 1944, Hovde was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, "for extraordinary achievement", completing 50 missions or the equivalent.
Hovde claimed his first air victory as a fighter pilot, a Focke-Wulf Fw 190 over the Münster area, on 22 February 1944.
The 358th Fighter Squadron began converting to the North American P-51 Mustang in March.
He was promoted to major on 9 March.
On 18 March, Hovde flew a P-51 in a penetration and target support mission for heavy bombers attacking a target in Germany.
During the withdrawal from the target, Hovde spotted fifteen enemy Fw 190s attacking the American bombers, leading his flight in the attack and claiming one victory.
This enabled the bombers to continue their flight back to England.
The German fighters attacked again while Hovde reformed his flight.
He then shot down another Fw 190.
While returning from this action, he was attacked by two enemy fighters, one of which he heavily damaged before running out of ammunition.
On 5 June, he was awarded the Silver Star "for gallantry in action".
On 4 April, Hovde claimed a fourth victory.
The next day, he received a Bronze Oak Leaf Cluster in lieu of another DFC for completing forty missions and shooting down the German aircraft.
In May, Hovde's first tour of duty ended and he returned to the continental United States for rest and recuperation, and then volunteered for a second tour.
Hovde returned to the squadron as its commander on 10 July.
 On 19 July, Hovde downed a German Messerschmitt Bf 109 over Augsburg, becoming the group's eighth ace.
On 27 July, he was awarded a second Bronze Oak Leaf Cluster to his DFC, "for heroism and extraordinary achievement", claiming three victories.
He commanded the 358th Fighter Squadron until 2 August 1944, subsequently serving as the squadron operations officer.
On 15 September, Hovde received a third Bronze Oak Leaf Cluster to his DFC, "for heroism and extraordinary achievement", shooting down three enemy aircraft.
On 5 December, during a bomber escort mission over Berlin, Hovde led the group in an attack on more than 100 Bf 109s and Fw 190s, shooting down five and sharing a sixth.
In this action, his aircraft developed mechanical difficulties and his fuel reserve became critically short.
On 13 March 1945, Hovde was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for extraordinary heroism.
On 30 March, he was awarded a fourth Bronze Oak Leaf Cluster to his DFC, "for extraordinary achievement" in combat missions.
Hovde was credited with 10.5 victories in air combat and another damaged, as well as two resulting from airfield strafing.
Hovde again commanded the 358th Fighter Squadron between 7 May and August 1945.


Interbellum
Hovde was deputy commander of the 355th Fighter Group, between October 1945 and March 1946, serving on occupation duty in Germany.
In Augsburg, he met Norma Gentner (died October 2000), a dancer whom he married in 1949.
Hovde commanded the 357th Fighter Squadron between March and September.
He then served with the 71st Fighter Squadron and the 12th Reconnaissance Squadron at March Field for the next two years.
In September 1948, he went to Ecuador to serve as an advisor to the Ecuadorian Air Force for P-47 training.


Korean War
Hovde was sent back to the United States in September 1950.
In October, he was stationed in Korea.
In Korea, he was an operations officer, executive officer, and the commander of the 335th Fighter Squadron, 4th Fighter Group, flying the North American F-86 Sabre (F-86 Sabrejet) since it arrived in Korea in December.
His command of the squadron ended after he was court-martialed in July 1951 for buzzing the Johnson Air Base golf course while the base commander was playing golf.
Later that year, he was executive officer of the 4th Fighter-Interceptor Wing.
Hovde flew 44 combat missions in Korea between October 1950 and August 1951, and claimed one victory, a Russian made Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-15, on 24 April 1951.
Hovde was awarded a Silver Oak Leaf Cluster in lieu of a sixth DFC, "for extraordinary achievement" while the commander of the 335th Fighter Squadron in Korea.
He returned to the United States from Korea, and attended the Strategic Intelligence School at Fort Myer.
In December 1951, he was assigned as the American Air attaché in Mexico City.


Post-war
He was the American Air attaché in Mexico City until March 1955.
On 20 April 1955, he was promoted to colonel.
Hovde became operations director of the 4709th Air Defense Wing at McGuire Air Force Base between April 1955 and May 1956.
Hovde took command of the 14th Fighter Group and simultaneously was base commander at Ethan Allen Air Force Base until August 1958.
He then attended the Air War College, graduating in July 1959.
Hovde served at the USAF Headquarters on the National Security Council's Evaluation Subcommittee in the Pentagon until September 1962, when he entered the Defense Intelligence School Attaché course, completing it in February 1963.
Hovde served as air attaché in Mexico City again until retiring on 30 June 1967.


Later years

Hovde spent nine years in the liquor business, and then retired to San Antonio.
He became president of the American Fighter Aces Association, and died on 13 March 1996.
Hovde was buried at the Arlington National Cemetery.


Aerial victory credits

SOURCES: Air Force Historical Study 85: USAF Credits for the Destruction of Enemy Aircraft, World War II and Air Force Historical Study 81: USAF Credits for the Destruction of Enemy Aircraft, Korean War, Freeman 1993


Military awards
Hovde's military decorations and awards include:


Distinguished Service Cross citation

Hovde, William J.,
Major (Air Corps), U.S.
Army Air Forces
358th Fighter Squadron, 355th Fighter Group, 8th Air Force
Date of Action:  December 5, 1944
Citation:
The President of the United States of America, authorized by Act of Congress, July 9, 1918, takes pleasure in presenting the Distinguished Service Cross to Major (Air Corps) William Johnston Hovde, United States Army Air Forces, for extraordinary heroism in connection with military operations against an armed enemy while serving as Pilot of a P-51 Fighter Airplane in the 358th Fighter Squadron, 355th Fighter Group, Eighth Air Force, in aerial combat against enemy forces on 5 December 1944, during an air mission over Berlin, Germany.
On that date, while acting as Group Leader on a bomber-escort mission, Major Hovde directed an attack by his group on superior numbers of enemy aircraft.
Despite the fact that his aircraft developed mechanical difficulties and his fuel reserve was critically short, he relentlessly pursued the enemy, personally destroying five of them and sharing in the destruction of a sixth.
The outstanding heroism and determination to destroy the enemy displayed by Major Hovde on this occasion are in keeping with the highest traditions of the Armed Forces of the United States.


References

Simplified Italian of Ethiopia
The "Simplified Italian of Ethiopia" or "SIE" (also called "Pidgin Italian of Ethiopia") was a pidgin language used by some Ethiopians in the 20th century to speak in a form of Italian.
It was used mainly in the north of Ethiopia (Tigrinya and Amhara regions) and in the capital, Addis Ababa, when Ethiopia was part of the Italian empire from 1936 up to World War II It remained in use among some old Ethiopians and Eritreans until the 2020s.


Characteristics
SIE, according to linguist Habte-Mariam Marcos in 1977, was a relatively variable form of Italian, simply modified in pronunciation, limited in vocabulary and sharply reduced in grammar.
In SIE there it is lack of articles and full use of infinitives, while SIE's morphology and syntax use little subordination and plenty of parataxis.

The phonology of the Pidgin Italian of Ethiopia is characterized by huge interference from Tigrinya and Amharic, the two Semitic languages spoken respectively in southern Eritrea and central northern Ethiopia by the majority of the population.
It seems likely that the Italians simplified the grammar of the language they used with underlings at this stage, but they did not borrow vocabulary and grammatical forms from Amharic and Tigrinya, since it does not show up in the simplified Italian used today.
According to Mauro Tosco, Tigrinya has borrowed most of its automotive technical vocabulary through SIE; for example, Italian "molla" ('spring' in English) is moollo, "pompa" ('pump') is boomba, and "freno" ('brake') is fariino.
Furthermore, the Italian language is very present in Amharic in the lexical fields of contemporary food (names of dishes and pastries) and automobiles (what must be learned to get a driver's licence).
Hussein Abdu Ramadan wrote that most of the loanwords from Italian had adopted Arabic grammatical rules for tense formation and inflection for number or gender.
Historian E.
Aiello thinks that in 1940 the percentage of the local population able to speak SIE was 26% in Addis Ababa and nearly 10% in northern Ethiopia.
In 2000, fewer than 100 old Ethiopians can understand and/or speak SIE.
Indeed, according to Hoffman Samuel, the Pidgin Italian of Ethiopia has the following characteristics: "The SIE has this characteristic: The Italian phonological system is rearranged, also on the basis of the interference of the local languages."


See also
Italian Eritrean
Simplified Italian of Somalia
Simplified Italian of Libya
Mediterranean Lingua Franca


Notes


Bibliography
Bender, Lionel.
Pidgin and Creole languages.
University of Hawaii Press.
Hawaii, 1987.
ISBN 9780824882150
Habte Mariam Marcos."Ethiopian Pidgin Italian: Other languages of Ethiopia" Oxford University.
Oxford, 1976
Hussein, Ramada Abdu.
"Italian loanwords in colloquial Libyan Arabic as spoken in the Tripoli region".
University of Arizona.
Tucson, 1988
Tripodi, Paolo.
"The Colonial Legacy in Somalia and in the Italian Empire".
St.
Martin's P Inc.
New York, 1999.

Morten Skogstad
Morten Skogstad (born 26 June 1962) is the drummer in the Norwegian hard rock/glam metal band Stage Dolls.
He joined the band in 1993, replacing Steinar Krokstad.
Skogstad was the drummer in the Norwegian hard rock band TNT from 1988 to 1989.
During his tenure in TNT, he used the stage name Kenneth Odiin.


Discography


TNT
Intuition (1989)


Stage Dolls
Dig (1997)
Get a Life (2004)
Get a Live (2005) - live CD + bonus DVD
Always (2010)


References

Elophila aristodora
Elophila aristodora is a species of moth in the family Crambidae.
It was described by Turner in 1908.
It is found on Australia, where it has been recorded from Queensland.
The species has also been found in Western Australia.


References

Picayune
A picayune was a Spanish coin, worth half a real or one sixteenth of a dollar.
Its name derives from the French picaillon, which is itself from the Provençal picaioun, the name of an unrelated small copper coin from Savoy.
By extension, picayune can mean "trivial" or "of little value".
Aside from being used in Spanish territories, the picayune and other Spanish currency was used throughout the colonial United States.
Spanish dollars were made legal tender in the U.S.
by an act on February 9, 1793.
They remained so until demonetization on February 21, 1857.
The coin's name first appeared in Florida and Louisiana, where its value was nominally one sixteenth of a dollar, i.e.
6+1⁄4 cents, and whose name was sometimes used in place of the U.S.
nickel.
A newspaper published in New Orleans since the 1830s, the Times-Picayune (originally The Picayune), was named after the coin.
A city in southern Mississippi has the name Picayune.


References


External links

2011 BH Tennis Open International Cup
The 2011 BH Tennis Open International Cup was a professional tennis tournament played on clay courts.
It was the 20th edition of the tournament which was part of the 2011 ATP Challenger Tour.
It took place in Belo Horizonte, Brazil between 12 and 18 September 2011.


ATP entrants


Seeds

1 Rankings are as of August 29, 2011.


Other entrants
The following players received wildcards into the singles main draw:

 Richard Arlindo
 Gabriel Dias
 Thiago Moura Monteiro
 Márcio Torres
The following players received entry from the qualifying draw:

 Fabiano de Paula
 Martín Cuevas
 Kevin Konfederak
 Carlos Oliveira


Champions


Singles

 Júlio Silva def.
 Gastão Elias, 6–4, 6–4


Doubles

 Guido Andreozzi /  Eduardo Schwank def.
 Ricardo Hocevar /  Christian Lindell, 6–2, 6–4


External links
Official Website
ITF Search Archived 2010-02-12 at the Wayback Machine
ATP official site

Ladislau Rohony
Ladislau Rohony (born 1 September 1938) is a Romanian fencer.
He competed in the individual and team sabre events at the 1960 Summer Olympics.


References


External links
Ladislau Rohony at Olympedia

RMRP
RNA component of mitochondrial RNA processing endoribonuclease, also known as RMRP, is a human gene.
Mitochondrial RNA-processing endoribonuclease cleaves mitochondrial RNA complementary to the light chain of the displacement loop at a unique site (Chang and Clayton, 1987).
The enzyme is a ribonucleoprotein whose RNA component is a nuclear gene product.
The RNA component is the first RNA encoded by a single-copy gene in the nucleus and imported into mitochondria.
The RMRP gene is untranslated, i.e., it encodes an RNA not a protein.[supplied by OMIM]
It is associated with cartilage–hair hypoplasia.


References


Further reading


External links
RMRP,+human at the U.S.
National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)
GeneReviews/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on Cartilage-Hair Hypoplasia - Anauxetic Dysplasia Spectrum Disorders

Willie Smith (billiards player)
Willie Smith (25 January 1886 – 2 June 1982) was an English professional player of snooker and English billiards.
Smith was, according to an article on the English Amateur Billiards Association's website, "by common consent, the greatest all-round billiards player who ever lived".
He studied previous Billiard players such as Melbourne Inman, Harry Stevenson, Tom Reece, Edward Diggle and George Gray, describing his play as "the combination of Gray's striking and Diggle's top-of-the-table play".
Smith became a professional player in 1913.
He entered the World Billiards Championship in 1920 and then again in 1923, winning it on both occasions.
 Arguments with the governing body prevented him from taking part in the competition more often.
In 1930 he started writing for The Burwat Billiard Review, a magazine published by the Cue Sport Manufacturers Burroughes and Watts.
These were instructional articles with accompanying illustrations and photographs.
He turned to snooker for purely monetary reasons but never really took to the game.
His natural talent as a billiards player still enabled him to reach the World Snooker Championship final in 1933 and 1935 where he was beaten by Joe Davis.


References

Jenrry Mejía
Jenrry Manuel Mejía (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈxenri meˈxi.a]; born October 11, 1989) is a Dominican professional baseball pitcher for the Charros de Jalisco of the Mexican League.
He has previously played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the New York Mets.
Mejía signed with the Mets as an international free agent on April 4, 2007.
He made his MLB debut in 2010 and was named the Mets' closer in May 2014.
Mejía was suspended for the first 80 games of the 2015 season after testing positive for performance-enhancing drugs (PED).
He received his second suspension in July 2015 after a second failed test.
He tested positive for a third time, which was reported in February 2016, resulting in his permanent suspension from MLB.
He was the first player to receive a permanent suspension due to violating MLB's drug policy three times.
Mejía later submitted an application for reinstatement, as allowed under MLB's drug policy, which was granted by Commissioner Rob Manfred in July 2018.


Early life
Mejía was born in Azua in the southwestern Dominican Republic.
Growing up, Mejía lived with his parents and younger brother in a neighborhood called Herrera, near Santo Domingo's former airport of the same name.
Starting at age 11, he made his living by shining shoes, earning about 300 pesos a day.
When he was 15 years old, he started playing baseball, becoming interested in the sport once he realized that players were able to earn a large signing bonus.
He drew some interest from several teams, including the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees, but was not seen at that time as a top talent, because he was small and slight of build.
He ultimately signed with the New York Mets for $16,500 in 2007, at the age of 17.


Professional career


New York Mets


Minor leagues

In 2007, Mejía played for the Dominican Summer League Mets.
He recorded a 2–3 record with a 2.47 ERA 14 games (7 starts).
The next year, Mejía pitched for the Gulf Coast League Mets and the Brooklyn Cyclones.
His combined statistics were a 5–2 record, with a 2.89 ERA in 14 starts.
Mejía started the 2009 season pitching for the Single-A St.
Lucie Mets.
He was 4–1 with a 1.97 ERA.
Then, he was promoted to the Double-A Binghamton Mets.
There he posted a 0–5 record with a 4.47 ERA in 10 starts.
He also missed seven weeks with a strained middle finger on his pitching hand.
Mejía had a 4–6 record with a 3.14 ERA in 19 total starts.
Because of his success in the 2009 season, he was named the 48th best prospect in the major leagues in the MLB.com Midseason Top 50 Prospect list.
After the 2009 season, the Mets assigned him to the Surprise Rafters of the Arizona Fall League,  where he posted a 12.56 ERA in six starts.
In February 2010, Mejía was ranked as the 56th best prospect in all of baseball by Baseball America.


Major leagues


2010

Mejía made the Mets 2010 opening day roster as a relief pitcher, at only 20 years old, making him the youngest Met to make an Opening Day roster since Dwight Gooden.
He made his major league debut on April 7, 2010.
After posting a 2.60 ERA in 30 relief appearances, on June 20, 2010, Mejía was optioned to Double-A Binghamton to become a starter, with Bobby Parnell taking his spot in the Mets bullpen.
Mejía was recalled from Triple-A Buffalo on September 1.
On September 4, Mejía made his first major league start for the Mets at Wrigley Field against the Chicago Cubs.
Mike Nickeas, who caught Mejía, also made his debut in the majors on the same day.


2011–2012

After starting five games for the Mets' Triple-A affiliate in Buffalo, on April 29, 2011, Mejía left the game after four innings due to elbow discomfort.
He was diagnosed a few days later with a complete tear of his ulnar collateral ligament and required Tommy John surgery, which put him out of reach for the remainder of the 2011 season.
Mejía missed much of the 2012 season due to recovery from Tommy John surgery.


2013
Mejía began the 2013 season on the 60-day disabled list.
He was activated on July 26, 2013, and started the first game of a day-night doubleheader against the Washington Nationals at Nationals Park.
He pitched 7 scoreless innings, giving up 7 hits, striking out 7, and walking none en route to his first win of the season.


2014
In 2014, Mejía won the Mets' fifth starter role out of spring training, beating out Daisuke Matsuzaka and John Lannan.
Mejía's first start and win came on April 4 at Citi Field against the Cincinnati Reds in which he went 6 innings striking out 8 and allowing 4 hits, 1 run, and 5 walks.
After struggling in seven starts, Mejía was moved into the bullpen on May 12.
The Mets began using Mejía as the closer, after the release of former closers Kyle Farnsworth and José Valverde.
On May 25, Mejía played a key role in a double header against the Arizona Diamondbacks.
In the first game, Mejía gave up a run off a fielder's choice to Diamondbacks shortstop Chris Owings in the top of the 9th inning.
The Mets would go on to lose the first game 2–1.
However, in the second game, Mejía again pitched the 9th inning, this time earning his 3rd save of the season in a 4–2 Mets victory.
Mejía earned 28 saves in 31 chances on the season.
As closer, Mejia was known for a distinctive stomp to celebrate completing a save.


2015
On Opening Day, Mejía was warming up for a 9th inning save, but injured his elbow.
He was placed on the 15-day disabled list the next day with elbow inflammation, retroactive to April 5.
On April 11, it was announced that Mejía was suspended for 80 games by MLB after testing positive for use of stanozolol, a performance-enhancing drug (PED).
Despite returning to the Mets in July, Mejía was replaced as closer by Jeurys Familia.
On July 28, 2015, Major League Baseball announced that Mejía had been suspended for 162 games after failing a test for stanozolol and Boldenone.


2016–2018: Indefinite ban and reinstatement
On January 25, 2016, the Mets re-signed Mejía to a one-year deal for $2.47 million, avoiding arbitration.
 However, due to his 162-game suspension, he would have only received a portion of that salary, since he would have to miss the first 99 games of the season.
On February 12, MLB announced that Mejía had tested positive for Boldenone, again.
He was the second player to have three positive tests, after Neifi Pérez.
As this was his third positive test for anabolic steroids, he was automatically banned from MLB for life.
He became the first person to be banned for life due to multiple PED use offenses.
He was also one of only four living people to be permanently banned, the others being Pete Rose in 1990, along with Chris Correa and John Coppolella in 2017.
Mejía claimed that he only failed one test, and that MLB pressured him to reveal where he obtained the PEDs after the second positive test, which he considered to be inaccurate.
He further claimed that MLB conspired to engineer the third positive test.
Mejía was eligible to petition Commissioner Rob Manfred for reinstatement after one year.
However, he was required to sit out a minimum of two years, meaning that he would not be eligible to return until 2018 at the earliest.
The Mets and Mejía did agree to a contract for the 2017 season, despite the fact that Mejía was not eligible to play and did not receive any salary in 2017.
On November 1, 2017, Mejía returned to professional baseball when he signed a contract to play in the Venezuela Winter League for the Navegantes del Magallanes.
He pitched 9+1⁄3 innings across six games, finishing with a 3.86 ERA, but allowed eight hits and issued 12 walks.
On July 6, 2018, MLB announced that Mejía was being reinstated, and was allowed to have "non-public workouts at Mets facilities" after the 2018 MLB All-Star Game.
He subsequently made two appearances with the Dominican Summer League Mets, pitching a total of seven innings without allowing any runs.
The Mets released Mejía on November 20, 2018, the deadline for the team to protect Mejía from being picked by other clubs in the Rule 5 draft by adding him to their 40-man roster, which the Mets declined to do.


Boston Red Sox
On January 30, 2019, Mejía signed a minor league contract with the Boston Red Sox.
After spending spring training with Boston, he was assigned to the Triple–A Pawtucket Red Sox, and also made appearances with the Double–A Portland Sea Dogs and Low–A Lowell Spinners.
Overall during 2019, Mejía was 2–8 with eight saves and a 6.02 ERA, with 58 strikeouts in 55+1⁄3 innings.
He elected free agency following the season on November 4.


Algodoneros de Unión Laguna
On February 7, 2020, Mejía signed with the Algodoneros de Unión Laguna of the Mexican League.
He did not play in a game in 2020 due to the cancellation of the Mexican League season because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Mejía returned to action in 2021, appearing in 26 games and posting a 2–3 record and 3.81 ERA with 26 strikeouts and 14 saves over 28+1⁄3 innings of work.
He made 6 appearances for the team in 2022, struggling to an 0–2 record and 13.50 ERA with 4 strikeouts across 4 innings pitched.


Pericos de Puebla
On May 12, 2022, Mejía was traded to the Pericos de Puebla of the Mexican League.
In 7 games for Saltillo, he struggled to a 1–2 record and 18.56 ERA with 7 strikeouts and 2 saves over 5+1⁄3 innings of work.
Mejía was released by the Saraperos on June 4.


Saraperos de Saltillo
On June 7, 2022, Mejía signed with the Saraperos de Saltillo of the Mexican League.
In 20 relief appearances, he posted a 2–1 record with a 3.18 ERA and 16 strikeouts in 22+2⁄3 innings.

In 2023, Mejía transitioned from a relief pitcher to a starter.
In 8 starts, he registered a 1–3 record with a 5.89 ERA and 26 strikeouts over 36+2⁄3 innings pitched.
Mejía was waived on July 3, 2023.

Mejía re-signed with the Saraperos on February 24, 2024.
In 28 appearances for the team, he logged a 2–1 record and 3.37 ERA with 28 strikeouts across 26+2⁄3 innings pitched.
Mejía made two appearances for Saltillo in 2025, allowing six runs (five earned) on four hits with one strikeout across 1⁄3 of an inning.
He was released by the Saraperos on April 23, 2025.


Charros de Jalisco
On May 24, 2025, Mejía signed with the Charros de Jalisco of the Mexican League.


Pitching style
Mejía throws a total of five pitches.
His primary pitch is a natural cut fastball, created by his three-quarters arm angle.
As a prospect, his fastball averaged 94 to 96 miles per hour.
Mejía also throws a curveball, slider, changeup, and sinker.
He retained the use of all five pitches, even as a reliever.


See also
List of Major League Baseball players suspended for performance-enhancing drugs
List of people banned from Major League Baseball


References


External links

Career statistics from MLB · ESPN · Baseball Reference · Fangraphs · Baseball Reference (Minors) · Retrosheet · Baseball Almanac

1997 Speedway Grand Prix
The 1997 Speedway Grand Prix was the 52nd edition of the official World Championship.
It was the third season in the Speedway Grand Prix era used to determine the Speedway World Champion.
Greg Hancock from the United States became the World Champion with 118 points beating fellow American Billy Hamill into second place.
The bronze medal went to Pole Tomasz Gollob.


Event format
During 1997 the initial SGP scoring system was used for the final time.
 Each rider raced every other in the meeting with the top 4 qualifying for a final - the points for all other riders determined their finishing position in the meeting and therefore their championship Grand Prix points.
The 4 finalists scored 25, 20, 18 and 16 points, with the remainder scoring 14, 13, 12, 11, 9, 8, 7, 6, 4, 3, 2, 1.


Qualification for Grand Prix

The 1997 season had 17 permanent riders and one wild card at each event.
 The permanent riders are highlighted in the results table below.


Calendar


Final standings


See also
motorcycle speedway


References


External links
Official Speedway GP site

Rosie Motene
Rosie Motene is a South African actress, author, film producer and activist.
She is a Pan African queer and feminist and speaker on GBV and LGBTQI in Africa.
She is the author of the 161-paged book, Reclaiming the Soil: A Black Girl's Struggle to Find Her African Self.
She is a Pan-African media proprietor and was one of the as the jurors at the fifth edition of Mashariki African Film Festival (MAFF) in 2019.
ZAlebs mentioned her as one of the most prevalent cast members of the Urban Brew Studios.


Career
Rosie Motene earned a Bachelor of Arts in Dramatic Arts (Honours) from the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits University) in Johannesburg.
She achieved national prominence for her portrayal of Tsego Motene on the SABC1 soap opera Generations (2000–2004), a role that made her a household name in South Africa.
She later became a host and field reporter for Studio 53, a Pan-African lifestyle and travel show on M-Net.
She eventually trained and worked as a producer and director on the program.
Rosie made her international film debut in Hotel Rwanda (2004), and later starred as Mandisa in Nothing But the Truth (2008), written and directed by John Kani.
The stage version toured internationally with performances at the Sydney Opera House, Brisbane Festival, and various UK cities including London, Leeds, Leicester, Manchester, Birmingham, and Nottingham.
She also appeared in the Heartlines short film The Other Woman, directed by Cindy Lee.
Motene co-produced the critically acclaimed film Man on Ground (2011), directed by Akin Omotoso.
The film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival and received international acclaim.
She served as Head of Programming, Productions, and Acquisitions at NTV Uganda and Spark TV, where she conceptualised and executive produced over 30 programs in English and Luganda.
Rosie is the producer of The Woman Who Poked the Leopard: The Stella Nyanzi Story, directed by Patience Nitumwesiga.
She founded Waka Talent Agency, one of the first Pan-African talent management companies.
The agency represented artists in 14 African countries and closed in 2024.
Rosie has worked in feminist and human rights advocacy for more than two decades.
She began her activism with POWA (People Opposing Women Abuse) in 1999 and joined the 1in9 Campaign at its inception in 2006, providing advocacy, consultancy, and feminist mentorship.
She is currently developing a documentary about the campaign.
She has served on several boards, including:

   Childline Gauteng (Chairperson)

   Infinite Family

   Johannesburg Children’s Home

   Tomorrow Trust

She currently serves as Co-Chairperson of The Other Foundation and is a board member of the Sexual and Reproductive Justice Coalition (SRJC).
Motene has climbed Mount Kilimanjaro twice — first as South Africa’s ambassador for UN Women’s Africa Unite Campaign to end gender-based violence, and again to raise funds for Tomorrow Trust, generating over R20,000.
She founded Letsatsi Healing Space, a trauma-informed, African-centred healing practice offering counseling, breathwork, reflective writing, and life coaching.
In 2018, she published her memoir Reclaiming the Soil: A Black Girl’s Struggle to Find Her African Self, which explores themes of identity, cultural reconnection, adoption, and healing.
She currently runs the blog and podcast Speaking Through My World, where she shares insights on African feminism, healing justice, and intersectional activism.


Filmography


Films


Television series


References


External links
Rosie Motene on IMDb
Rosie Motene on Letsatsi healing Space
[https://www.rosiemotene.biz// Rosie Motene

Gullstruck Island
Gullstruck Island, (also known as The Lost Conspiracy) was written by Frances Hardinge and published on 1 June 2009.
 It was the fourth fantasy book written by Frances Hardinge.


Summary
The Lost are a kind of oracle that can send their minds out across Gullstruck Island in order to do many impossible tasks, such as finding criminals.
The Lace are a tribe on Gullstruck Island that have been mistrusted for several centuries after they committed murders against other settlers.
In recent years, the Lace have proclaimed that one of their own people, a girl named Arilou, is a Lost, and have managed to obtain some recognition and respect for themselves.
With the help of her younger sister/assistant Hathin, Arilou is trained to take part in a special test that will examine her abilities.
The issue with Arilou is that she may not be a Lost at all, but rather an imbecile.
Hathin is forced to keep up the lie for her people's sake, especially since the test could well oust Arilou as an imposter and endanger the Lace's future.


External links
Review in the Guardian
Review in the Sunday Times

Zhejiang University of Science and Technology
Zhejiang University of Science and Technology (ZUST; simplified Chinese: 浙江科技大学; traditional Chinese: 浙江科技大學; pinyin: Zhèjiāng kējì dàxué) is a public university located in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, China.


History
The university was founded in 1980.


Administration


Schools and Departments
The university is organized into the following schools and departments.


References


External links
Zhejiang University of Science and Technology Official website

1927 South Carolina Gamecocks football team
The 1927 South Carolina Gamecocks football team was an American football team that represented the University of South Carolina as a member of the Southern Conference (SoCon) during the 1927 college football season.
Led by Harry Lightsey in his first and only season as head coach, the Gamecocks compiled an overall record of 4–5 with a mark of 2–4 in conference play, tying for 16th place in the SoCon.


Schedule


References

Anja Senti
Anja Senti (born 28 September 1996) is a target shooter from Switzerland.
She has won individual titles at two ISSF World Championships.


Personal life
Anja has a diploma in Architecture.


Sporting career
Anja began shooting in 2006.
In 2021, she won two silver medals in team events at the European Shooting Championships in Osijek.
She won an individual bronze medal in the women's 300m prone rifle.
At the 2022 World Championships, she won the women's 300m prone rifle event.
With Sarina Hitz and Silvia Guignard, she won silver in the women's team events for 300m prone rifle and 300m 3-Position Rifle.
At the 2023 ISSF World Championships in Baku, Senti became world champion in the women's 50m prone rifle event, also winning the team event alongside Sarina Hitz and Chiara Leone.
Alongside Guignard Schnyder and Michele Bertschi she won the women's 300m prone rifle team event and earned silver in the women's 300m 3-Position Rifle team event.


References


External links
Athlete Profile at Swiss Shooting
Anja Senti at the International Shooting Sport Federation

Bement, Illinois
Bement is a village in Piatt County, Illinois, United States.
Its population was 1,484 at the 2020 census.


Geography

According to the 2010 census, Bement has a total area of 0.81 square miles (2.10 km2), all land.


Demographics

As of the census of 2000, there were 1,784 people, 687 households, and 485 families residing in the village.
The population density was 2,197.1 inhabitants per square mile (848.3/km2).
There were 723 housing units at an average density of 890.4 per square mile (343.8/km2).
The racial makeup of the village was 98.37% White, 0.90% African American, 0.22% Asian, 0.11% from other races, and 0.39% from two or more races.
Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.34% of the population.
There were 687 households, out of which 31.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 58.5% were married couples living together, 8.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 29.4% were non-families.
25.6% of all households were made up of individuals, and 12.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.
The average household size was 2.48 and the average family size was 2.97.
In the village, the population was spread out, with 23.7% under the age of 18, 8.2% from 18 to 24, 29.1% from 25 to 44, 21.8% from 45 to 64, and 17.2% who were 65 years of age or older.
The median age was 38 years.
For every 100 females, there were 96.5 males.
For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.8 males.
The median income for a household in the village was $40,163, and the median income for a family was $47,652.
Males had a median income of $30,641 versus $21,944 for females.
The per capita income for the village was $17,995.
About 3.1% of families and 6.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 5.4% of those under age 18 and 5.7% of those age 65 or over.


Bryant Cottage

Bryant Cottage is located in Bement.
Built in 1856 by Francis E.
Bryant, it is now preserved as an example of pioneer architecture and as an important historic site.
Due to budget cuts, Bryant Cottage was scheduled to close, even though it is an important landmark in Abraham Lincoln's political career.
However, because of local efforts, Bryant Cottage will remain open to the public.


References


External links
Bement.com
"Bement Centennial 1955 photographs".
University of Missouri–St.
Louis.

David Yong
Yong Khung Lin (Chinese: 杨孔霖, born 1987), more commonly known as David Yong, is a Singaporean businessman and singer.
He is the current chief executive officer (CEO) of Evergreen Group Holdings of Singapore, a company with interests in timber trading, real estate, lifestyle and entertainment.


Early life and education
Yong was born into a family with a timber trading business.
His interest in K-pop was sparked in 2017 when he took his younger brother to a concert by the K-pop girl group Twice in Singapore.
He studied law at the University of Bristol in the United Kingdom in 2013.
Initially working as a lawyer, he soon joined his family's timber business, Evergreen Teak Trading, founded by his father Yong Ing Fatt in 1990.
In 2014, following Myanmar's ban on raw timber exports, Yong decided to shift his focus to furniture manufacturing, specializing in high-quality Burmese teak.
The move into furniture manufacturing helped expand Evergreen Group Holdings (Evergreen GH) beyond timber trading.


Career


Music career
In May 2021, Yong moved to South Korea to pursue his music ambitions and was signed by Rainbowbridge World (RBW), the agency of popular K-pop girl group Mamamoo.
He initially found it difficult to communicate in Korean, having to learn it within a span of months.
He first collaborated with 4Men on the track "My Way", which was released in December 2021.
Yong made his music career on 5 July 2022, releasing a hip-hop track, "In My Pocket", featuring Kid Milli, and produced by Jeon Ji-yoon.
"In My Pocket" received more than 10 million views on YouTube.


Business career
Yong is the chief executive of Evergreen GH and runs more than 15 businesses.
Evergreen GH diversified its business portfolio to include real estate, lifestyle and entertainment.
The company partnered with RBW to distribute content across Southeast Asia, co-produce artists and establish training schools for K-pop aspirants in the region.
Following his debut in 2022, he invested approximately ₩10 billion ($7.5 million) in the South Korean K-pop entertainment agency Attrakt.
At the time of his investment, Attrakt was facing challenges, including a legal dispute with its only artist, the girl group Fifty Fifty.
In August 2024, after the news broke of Yong being charged in Singaporean court for falsifying tax invoices for Evergreen GH, Attrakt stated that despite the memorandum of understanding signed between Yong and them, Yong's investment then had been minimal and that his ongoing legal issues would have minimal impact on their operations.


Personal life
Yong resides in the tallest tower in Seoul, the Lotte World Tower.


References


External links
David Yong at IMDb

Now Apocalypse
Now Apocalypse is an American comedy television series that aired for one season of ten episodes from March 10 to May 12, 2019, on Starz.
The series was written by Gregg Araki and Karley Sciortino.
Araki also was director and executive producer alongside Steven Soderbergh and Gregory Jacobs.
Starz canceled the series after one season on July 26, 2019.


Premise
Ulysses, his friends Carly and Ford, and Ford's girlfriend Severine navigate love, sex, and fame in Los Angeles.
Troubled by sinister, premonitory dreams, Ulysses wonders if the end of the world as we know it is coming, or if he is simply suffering some kind of marijuana-fueled delusions.


Cast and characters


Main
Avan Jogia as Ulysses Zane, Carly's best friend
Kelli Berglund as Carly Carlson, the best friend of Ulysses, who also happens to be a struggling actress and cam girl.
According to Uly, Carly also suffers from anxiety.
Beau Mirchoff as Ford Halstead, Ulysses' straight roommate
Roxane Mesquida as Severine Bordeaux, Ford's girlfriend


Recurring
Evan Hart as Lars
Taylor Hart as Klaus
Tyler Posey as Gabriel
Desmond Chiam as Jethro
Kevin Daniels as Barnabas
Grace Victoria Cox as Amber
Mary Lynn Rajskub as Frank
Chris Aquilino as Kai
Avra Friedman as Magenta
Devan Chandler Long as Otto West
Henry Rollins as Mitchell Kent
RJ Mitte as Leif
Jacob Artist as Isaac
James Duval as Homeless man


Episodes


Production


Development
Gregg Araki was inspired to do television by the mystery series Twin Peaks, which he called "so ground-breaking and artistic and unusual and just its totally own thing".
He directed episodes of several television series, but was hesitant to run his own show until he thought about the story potential of life in Los Angeles.
Araki presented the idea to writer Karley Sciortino, who started working with him on the script.
Gregory Jacobs, who had worked with Araki on Red Oaks, joined the project and brought in Steven Soderbergh.
The production designer, costume designer, and director of photography have previously worked on other projects with Araki.
On March 26, 2018, it was announced that Starz had given Now Apocalypse a series order for a first season of ten episodes.
The series is written by Araki and Sciortino, and directed by Araki.
The series is executive produced by Soderbergh, Jacobs, and Araki.
On December 10, 2018, it was announced that the series would premiere on March 10, 2019.
On March 22, 2019, the eight remaining episodes of season one were released online and on demand.
They also continued to air weekly.
Starz canceled the series after one season on July 26, 2019.
Araki later stated that he was shopping the series to other networks.


Casting
In June 2018, it was announced that Avan Jogia, Kelli Berglund, Beau Mirchoff, and Roxane Mesquida had joined the main cast and that Evan Hart, Taylor Hart, Tyler Posey, Jacob Artist, Chris Aquilino, Desmond Chiam, RJ Mitte, and Grace Victoria Cox had been cast in recurring roles.
On July 2, 2018, it was reported that Kevin Daniels and Avra Friedman had joined the cast in a recurring capacity.


Filming
The ten episodes of the series were shot in 40 days.


Reception


Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes the series holds an approval rating of 78% based on 32 reviews, with an average score of 6.42 out of 10.
The website's critical consensus reads: "Marrying filmmaker Gregg Araki's frisky style with heady conspiracies and literary allusions, Now Apocalypse's bodacious aesthetics and philosophical pondering may prove too deliberately offbeat and garish for some." Metacritic assigned the series a weighted average score of 64 out of 100 based on 12 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".


Ratings


References


External links
Now Apocalypse at IMDb

Ludwick
Ludwick is a surname of German origin, and may refer to:

Andrew K.
Ludwick (born 1946), American businessman
Christopher Ludwick (1720–1801), American baker
Eric Ludwick (born 1971), American baseball player
Ryan Ludwick (born 1978), American baseball player
Sean Ludwick, American real estate developer convicted of vehicular homicide
Tessa Ludwick (born 1988), American actress
NDOKANG Ludwick (born 1987), Cameroonian Businessman and Pastor


See also
Lodwick, surname
Ludvig, given name
Ludwig (given name)
Ludwik, given name

Superior Shipbuilding Company
The Superior Shipbuilding Company was originally called the American Steel Barge Company, and based in Duluth, Minnesota.
It was founded by Scottish Captain Alexander McDougall who founded it so he could produce his new whaleback ship, this was Whaleback Barge 101.
In 1900 McDougall sold his firm to the American Ship Building Company which transferred the company to Superior, Wisconsin and renamed it Superior Shipbuilding Company, also called AmShip Superior.
After World War I the yard stopped manufacturing ships and instead turned to repair work.
They continued repairing ships until 1945 when American Ship Building Company decided to sell it.
It was initially known as the Knudsen Brothers Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Company.
In 1955 it was renamed Fraser-Nelson Shipyards then Fraser Shipyards and still exists today.
Fraser Shipyards does dry dock work, also conversions: steam to diesel and coal-fired to oil-burning.
Lake Assault boat builders operate out of Fraser Shipyards.



Ships built


American Steel Barge Company of Duluth, Minnesota


American Steel Barge Company of Superior, Wisconsin


Superior Shipbuilding Company of Superior, Wisconsin


See also
Great Lakes Engineering Works
Collingwood Shipbuilding Company
Defoe Shipbuilding Company
Manitowoc Shipbuilding Company
American Ship Building Company


References

2026 United States Senate election in Montana
The 2026 United States Senate election in Montana will be held on November 6, 2026, to elect a member of the United States Senate to represent the state of Montana.
Primary elections will be held on June 2, 2026.
Two-term Republican Steve Daines, who was re-elected in 2020 with 55.0% of the vote, has filed for reelection.


Republican primary


Candidates


Declared
Steve Daines, incumbent U.S.
Senator (2015–present)


Endorsements


Fundraising


Democratic primary


Candidates


Declared
Reilly Neill, former state representative


Filed paperwork
Michael Black Wolf, tribal historic preservation officer at Fort Belknap Indian Community
Michael Hummert, retired remodeling contractor and candidate for U.S.
Senate in 2024


Declined
Jon Tester, former U.S.
Senator (2007–2025)


Fundraising


General election


Predictions


References


External links
Official campaign websites
Michael Black Wolf (D) for Senate
Steve Daines (R) for Senate
Michael Hummert (D) for Senate
Reilly Neill (D) for Senate

William Marling
Sir William Henry Marling, 2nd Baronet, JP, DL (1 July 1835 – 19 October 1919)  was an English baronet.


Early life
Marling was born in Stroud to Sir Samuel Marling.
He was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge.


Marriage
Marling married Mary Abraham in 1860: they had four sons.


Succession
Marling succeeded his father as second baronet of Stanley Park and Sedbury Park in the County of Gloucester in 1883.
He was succeeded by his son in 1919.


County office
Marling was appointed High Sheriff of Gloucestershire in 1888.


References

Khalaj, Iran
Khalaj (Persian: خلج), also rendered as Kalach, in Iran may refer to:

Khalaj, Ardabil
Khalaj, East Azerbaijan
Khalaj, Hamadan
Khalaj, Isfahan
Khalaj, Razavi Khorasan
Khalaj-e Malmir, Markazi Province
Khalaj-e Olya, Markazi Province
Khalaj-e Sofla
Khalaj, West Azerbaijan
Khalaj, Urmia, West Azerbaijan Province
Khalaj-e Ajam, West Azerbaijan Province
Khalaj-e Kord, West Azerbaijan Province
Khalaj, Khorramdarreh, Zanjan Province
Khalaj, Mahneshan, Zanjan Province

Doctor Ecstaticus
Doctor Ecstaticus may refer to:

Denis the Carthusian (1402 – 1471), Roman Catholic theologian and mystic
Meister Eckhart (c.
1260–c.
1328), German theologian, philosopher and mystic
John of Ruusbroec (1293–1381), Flemish mystical theologian

Raven, Virginia
Raven is a census-designated place (CDP) in Russell and Tazewell counties in the U.S.
state of Virginia.
The population was 2,270 at the 2010 census.


Geography
According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of 6.8 square miles (17.7 km2), all land.


Demographics

At the 2000 census, there were 2,593 people, 1,064 households and 774 families residing in the CDP.
The population density was 379.5 per square mile (146.5/km2).
There were 1,219 housing units at an average density of 178.4 per square mile (68.9/km2).
The racial make-up of the CDP was 99.04% White, 0.04% African American, 0.08% Native American and 0.85% from two or more races.
Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.77% of the population.
There were 1,064 households, of which 30.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 55.5% were married couples living together, 13.1% had a female householder with no husband present and 27.2% were non-families.
24.4% of all households were made up of individuals and 11.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.
The average household size was 2.44 and the average family size was 2.88.
23.1% Of the population were under the age of 18, 9.1% from 18 to 24, 28.8% from 25 to 44, 26.3% from 45 to 64 and 12.6% were 65 years of age or older.
The median age was 37 years.
For every 100 females, there were 94.5 males.
For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.1 males.
The median household income was $19,104 and the median family income was $22,891.
Males had a median income of $23,080 and females $19,327.
The per capita income was $10,356.
About 16.0% of families and 19.7% of the population were below the poverty line, including 25.6% of those under age 18 and 24.7% of those age 65 or over.


References


External links
Raven tourism site

Highland Park Ford Plant
The Highland Park Ford Plant is a historic former Ford Motor Company factory located at 91 Manchester Street (at Woodward Avenue) in Highland Park, Michigan.
It was Ford's third factory, it was the second American  Model T production facility and it was the first factory in history to assemble automobiles on a moving assembly line.
The Highland Park Ford Plant became a National Historic Landmark in 1978.


History
Highland Park was designed by Albert Kahn Associates in 1908 and was opened in 1910.
Ford automotive production had previously taken place at the Ford Piquette Avenue Plant, where the first Model Ts were built.
The Highland Park Ford Plant was approximately 4 miles (6.4 km) northwest of the original Dodge Brothers factory who were subcontractors for Ford, producing precision engine and chassis components for the Model T.
It was also approximately 1 mile (1.6 km) northwest of the former Brush-Maxwell plant, which later became Highland Park Chrysler Plant the headquarters for the Chrysler Corporation.
The complex included offices, factories, a power plant and a foundry as part of Ford's strategy of integrating the supply chain.
About 102 acres in size the Highland Park Plant was the largest manufacturing facility in the world at the time of its opening.
Because of its spacious design, it set the precedent for many factories and production plants built thereafter.

Using division of labor, rigorous cost-cutting and process optimization, the factory went through an experience curve to reduce price and increase volume.
On October 7, 1913, the Highland Park Ford Plant became the first automobile production facility in the world to implement the moving assembly line.
The new assembly line improved production time of the Model T from 728 to 93 minutes.
The Highland Park assembly line lowered the price of the Model T from $700 (equivalent to $23,623 in 2024) in 1910 to $350 (equivalent to $8,590 in 2024) in 1917, making it an affordable automobile for most Americans.
On January 5, 1914, Ford announced that factory wages would be raised from a daily rate of $2.34 (equivalent to $73 in 2024) to $5.00 (equivalent to $157 in 2024), and that daily shifts would be reduced from nine hours to eight.
After the increase in pay, Ford claimed that the turnover rate of 31.9 percent in 1913 decreased to 1.4 percent in 1915.
Ford offered nearly three times the wages paid at other unskilled manufacturing plants.
In the late 1920s, the open Model T went out of fashion and Ford moved automobile assembly to the River Rouge Plant complex in nearby Dearborn to focus on improving quality with the Model A.
Automotive trim manufacturing and Fordson tractor assembly continued at the Highland Park plant.
The 1,690 M4A3 Sherman tanks built by Ford from June, 1942 to September, 1943 were assembled in this factory, as well.
During the 1940s through 1960s, the Highland Park plant was a principal location for Ford U.S.
tractor manufacture.
In the 1970s, the Ford Romeo Engine Plant increasingly displaced it for that role.
Ford sold their building and began leasing the space in 1981.
Throughout the 1980s parts of the factory were dismantled and torn down, including a large factory building, the boiler building and the administrative building.

By the mid-1990s neither plant was producing tractors or tractor parts, as Ford had sold off its tractor and implement interests in stages during the 1990-1993 period.
During the 2010s large portions of steel-framed warehouse buildings were scrapped in favor of a stock yard for tenants.
Other companies occupying this property included a scrap yard and a cement plant.
By 2011, Ford used the facility to store documents and artefacts for the Henry Ford Museum.
A portion is also occupied by a Forman Mills clothing warehouse that opened in 2006.


Current status
The Woodward Avenue Action Association has a purchase agreement with the complex's owner, National Equity Corp., to pay $550,000 for two of eight buildings at the historic Ford manufacturing complex: a four-floor, 40,000-square-foot sales office and the 8,000-square-foot executive garage near it.
The center would include a theater with continuous videos, informational kiosks, interpretive displays on automotive history and a gift/coffee/snack shop.
It could also be a place where visitors could pick up historical automotive tours, such as the current tour offered by the Woodward group, "In the Steps of Henry".
The former factory is now a mall, named Model-T-Plaza; the mall features architectural features recalling the location's origin.
The remaining buildings W, X, Y, and Z at Highland Industrial Center occupy about 1.3 million square feet, and 10 parcels of land go to this site, which was formerly owned by the Woodland-Manchester Corp, and is now currently leased by a security company.
No further businesses occupy the lot behind the factory building, as of 2021.


In the media
The plant was used as a location for director Shawn Levy's 2011 Disney/Touchstone Pictures film Real Steel.


Gallery


See also

List of Ford factories


References


External links

The Moving Assembly Line Debuted at the Highland Park Plant, Historic Sites, Heritage, Ford Motor Company official site.
National Register of Historic Places Inventory - Nomination Form, May 1977.
Ford's Highland Park plant a manufacturing pioneer, MotorCities National Heritage Area, Detroit News article, May 21, 2009.
National Historic Landmarks in Michigan, Michigan Historical Center, State Historic Preservation Office, Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
Ford search results - Historic Sites Online, Michigan Historical Center, State Historic Preservation Office, Michigan State Housing Development Authority.

Takia
Takia may refer to:

Ayesha Takia, India actress
Takia language
Takia people of Madang Province, Papua New Guinea
Bazmaghbiar, Armenia - formerly Takia
Takia, Iran, a village in Markazi Province, Iran
Takia (watercraft), a traditional watercraft of Fiji


See also
Takiya (disambiguation)
Taqiyah (cap)

Marcelo Dourado
Marcelo Pereira Dourado (born 29 April 1972) is a Brazilian professional mixed martial artist and personal trainer.


Early life
In his childhood, Marcelo Dourado started to practice Brazilian jiu jitsu and Judo in Porto Alegre, his hometown.
Later, he started to learn karate from his father.
At the age of thirteen, he began to fight professionally.
In football, Dourado is a Sport Club Internacional supporter.


Career
In his first professional MMA fight, Dourado defeated Rafael Capoeira by knockout after only 4 minutes and 20 seconds of round 1.
In the following fights, however, he did not achieve the same success and has been defeated in all of them.


Arrest
Marcelo Dourado was arrested by the military police in 2005, along with 27 others, for consuming drugs in an electronic music party in Rio de Janeiro.
He was caught smoking marijuana.
After being detained for several hours, he was released.


Big Brother Brasil


Season 4
In January 2004, he was part of the cast in Big Brother Brasil 4.
During his first time in the house, Dourado started a relationship with fellow housemate Juliana.
On 8 March 2004, he became the eighth housemate to be evicted with 68% of the votes, finishing seventh overall.


Season 10
In January 2010, he was again part of the cast in Big Brother Brasil 10.
During his second time in the house, Dourado caused disagreements and controversies by displaying manjis (卍) in a tattoo on his left arm, which were taken to be swastikas.
He was also accused of homophobic behavior by some LGBT organizations.
Dourado's adviser, Aline Antonoff, issued a press release, in which she stated that the tattoo differs from the Nazi swastika, because it is reversed, and has no connection with it, since the symbol belongs to several cultures.
She also denied that the fighter is homophobic.
On 30 March 2010, Dourado became the winner of Big Brother Brasil with 60% of the 154 million votes, defeating dentist Fernanda Cardoso and personal trainer Cadu Parga in the final to take the R$1,500,000 prize.


References


See also

List of mayors of Detroit
This is a list of mayors of Detroit, in the U.S.
state of Michigan.
The current mayor is Mike Duggan, who was sworn into office on January 1, 2014.


History of Detroit's executive authority
During the earliest part of its history, Detroit was a military outpost, and executive authority was wielded by first French, then British military commandants.
Soon after the Detroit area was taken over by American forces, civil authority became more prominent, and executive authority was placed in the hands of a series of appointed officials, elected boards, and elected officials.
This included a brief stint in 1806–1809 with a largely ceremonial mayor.
Detroit's current strong mayor system dates from the city's 1824 charter.
From 1824 to 1857, mayors were elected to terms of one year; from 1858 to 1953 the term was increased to two years, and after 1953 mayoral terms were four years.


Early French and British leadership
During the early part of Detroit's existence, local authority was vested in French and British military commandants.
 French commandants included:

Antoine de la Mothe Cadillac (1701–1710)
François de la Forêt (1710–1714)
Jacques-Charles Renaud Dubuisson (1714)
Pierre Alphonse de Tonty (1717–1727)
Jean-Baptiste de Saint-Ours Deschaillons (1728–1729)
Louis Henry Deschamps, Sieur de Boishebert (1730–1733)
Jacques-Hugues Péan de Livaudière (1733–1736)
Pierre-Jacques Payen de Noyan, Sieur de Charvis (1739–1742)
Pierre Joseph Celoron (1742–1744)
Paul Joseph le Moyne, Chevalier de Longueuil (1744–1748)
Pierre Joseph Celoron (second term, 1750–1754)
Jacques-Pierre Daneau de Muy (1754–1758)
Francois Marie Picote, Sieur de Belestre (1758–1760)
Seventeen British commandants led Detroit between 1760 and 1796.

Major Robert Rogers (1760)
Captain Donald Campbell (1760–1762)
Major Henry Gladwin (1762–1764)
Colonel John Bradstreet (1764)
Lieutenant-Colonel John Campbell (1765–1766)
George Turnbull (1766–1769)
Captain James Stephenson (1770–1772)
Captain George Etherington (1772)
Major Henry Bassett (1772–1774)
Captain Richard Beringer Lernoult (1774–1779)
Colonel Arent Schuyler de Peyster (1779–1784)
Major William Ancrum (1785–1786)
Thomas Bennett (1786)
Captain Robert Matthews (1787–1788)
Major Patrick Murray (1788–1790)
Major John Smith (1790–1792)
Colonel Richard England (1792–1796)


Early American leadership
When Detroit was turned over to the Americans in 1796, Colonel Jean François Hamtramck was named commander of Detroit, a position he held until his death in 1803.
The first local rule of Detroit was established in 1802, when Detroit was incorporated as a town.
 The original incorporation provided for a board of trustees to govern the town, the chairman of which was the highest governmental position.
 The first chairman of the board, appointed on February 9, 1802, was James Henry.
 Henry was elected to the position later in the year.
 Subsequent elections were held in May of each year, with the chairmen of the Board of Trustees being:

James Henry (1802–1803)
James May (1803–1804)
Solomon Sibley (1804–1805)
Joseph Wilkinson (elected 1805)


1806 charter
In 1805, a massive fire destroyed the town and effectively eliminated the government.
 Governor William Hull and Judge Augustus Woodward dissolved the original incorporation, replacing it in 1806 with a government headed by an appointed mayor.
  However, the position was largely honorary, and the two men who held it (Solomon Sibley and Elijah Brush) each quickly resigned upon realizing the lack of power in the office.
 The legislation creating this mayoral position was repealed in 1809, after which de facto political power still resided with Hull and Woodward, and Detroit was without either a mayor or board of trustees until after the War of 1812.


Second Board of Trustees
After the war, a legislative act in 1815 ended the interregnum and returned political control to the citizens of Detroit through a Board of Trustees, elected yearly.
 In October of that year, Solomon Sibley was elected as the first chair.
 The chairs elected yearly  to this Board were:

Solomon Sibley (1815–1816)
George McDougall (1816–1817)
Abraham Edwards (1817–1818)
John R.
Williams (1818–1819)
James McCloskey (1819–1820)
James Abbott (1820–1821)
Andrew G.
Whitney (1821–1822; 1822–1823)
James Abbott (second term, 1823–1824)


1824 charter
In 1824, John R.
Williams drew up a new city charter that provided for the first time for a directly elected mayor, with significantly increased executive powers.
Following approval by the state legislature, Williams became the City of Detroit's first elected mayor.


1918 charter and nonpartisan elections
In June 1918 Detroit's first home-rule city charter came into effect, following passage by city voters in a referendum.
The new charter mandated that all Detroit public offices be non-partisan, and that elections to those positions would be held on a non-partisan basis, with no party designations on the ballot.
These provisions have been continued through all subsequent city charter revisions.
Since 1918, all mayoral elections in Detroit have been held on a non-partisan basis, and mayors have officially served unaffiliated with any political party.
 Thus, the party affiliations given in the chart below for mayors elected after 1918 are not official and are based on the inferences of editors based on available historic information.


Official residence
Since 1966, the official residence of the Mayor of Detroit has been the Manoogian Mansion, located on Dwight Street in the Berry Subdivision Historic District, facing the Detroit River on the city's east side.
The mansion was donated to the city by industrialist Alex Manoogian, founder of the Masco Corporation.


First incorporation
Two mayors served under the 1806 charter.


Reincorporation
The following mayors served under the stronger executive mayoral system begun in the 1824 charter:


Non-partisan elections
A new city charter went into effect in 1918, which required that all city offices be non-partisan.
The following mayors were elected in non-partisan elections with no party designations on the ballot, and served on a non-partisan basis with no official party affiliation: This provision has been repeated in the subsequent city charters of 1974, 1997, and 2012: So, the party affiliations shown below are based on information from each mayor's personal and/or political history and do not represent any official status.


See also

Timeline of Detroit
History of Detroit
Decline of Detroit


References


External links
The Early Government of Detroit

Dimitri Verhulst
Dimitri Verhulst (born 2 October 1972) is a Belgian writer and poet.
He is best known for his novels Problemski Hotel and The Misfortunates.


Biography
Verhulst was an unwanted child in a violent home and spent his later childhood in a foster home and a family replacing home.
He grew up Catholic.
As a writer, he made his debut in 1994 with the self-published Assevrijdag.
In 1999 his first official publication appeared, a collection of stories about his youth, De kamer hiernaast, for which he was nominated for the NRC Literair Prijs.
The novel Niets, niemand en redelijk stil (2000) is also about his youth, but De verveling van de keeper (2002) signals a change in form and is characterized by great social and political involvement.
In 2001, Verhulst published Liefde, tenzij anders vermeld, a collection of poetry.
His breakthrough to the general public was in 2003, with Problemski Hotel (translated as Problemski Hotel), about residents of an asylum-seekers' centre in Arendonk (Belgium).
The book was translated into more than ten languages.
Belgian filmmaker Manu Riche made a movie based on the book, which is to premiere in January 2016.
In 2006 his novel De helaasheid der dingen (translated as The Misfortunates) was published, and also the novella Mevrouw Verona daalt de heuvel af (translated as Madame Verona Comes Down the Hill).
In 2008, Godverdomse dagen op een godverdomse bol ("Goddamn days on a goddamn globe") was published, for which Verhulst won the 2009 Libris Prize; Verhulst wrote the 2015 Boekenweekgeschenk, De zomer hou je ook niet tegen.
His 2015 novel Bloedboek ("Bloodbook"), a retelling of the Pentateuch, was praised in De Morgen for its amusement value; in the Dutch daily Trouw it was called a "gruesome bible", with the interviewer questioning Verhulst about his use of terms such as "Final solution" in retelling the first five books of the bible.
Verhulst responded that he used the "worldwide language of genocide".
Verhulst publishes on a regular basis in the literary journals Underground, Nieuw Wereldtijdschrift and De Brakke Hond.
For Underground he is also an editor.
He lives and works in Huccorgne.


Writing style
Verhulst's writing style has been characterized as sarcastic but compassionate.
His use of language can be explicit and hilarious.
Belgian writer Louis Paul Boon is a source of inspiration for Verhulst.
His writing is controversial, and Verhulst was twice summoned to court.


Controversy
On 27 July 2019, Verhulst published a newspaper column in the Belgian daily De Morgen about Palestinian modern literature.
In this column by Verhulst, he claimed to quote Serge Gainsbourg writing that: " "Jood-zijn is geen godsdienst; er is geen enkele God die Zijn schepsels zo’n lelijke neus zou geven." (Translated: "Being Jewish is not a religion; there is no God who would give His creatures such an ugly nose.") According to The Times of Israel, this was not Gainsbourgs original quote and Verhulst accused Israeli Jews of various crimes in his columns.
The Times of Israel stated the Forum of Jewish Organizations of Belgium's Flemish region accused Verhulst of expressing “rabid anti-Semitism” in his column and the Dutch Chief Rabbi Binyomin Jacobs called the column “pure anti-Semitism."
The Forum of Jewish Organizations has withdrawn its decision to file criminal charges against writer and columnist Dimitri Verhulst.
The Jewish umbrella organization announced this in a press release.

Published 7 October 2019 in a.o.
Knack, De Standaard, VRT


Bibliography
Assevrijdag (1994)
De kamer hiernaast (1999)
Niets, niemand en redelijk stil (2001)
Liefde, tenzij anders vermeld (2001, poetry)
De verveling van de keeper (2002)
Problemski Hotel (2003)
Dinsdagland (2004)
De aankomst in de bleke morgen op dat bleke plein (Aalst) (2005, play)
Yerma vraagt een toefeling (2005, translation of Yerma by Federico García Lorca)
Boekendiefstal is een zegen voor de middenstand (2005)
De helaasheid der dingen (2006, The Misfortunates; there is also a 2009 film version called The Misfortunates)
Mevrouw Verona daalt de heuvel af (2006, Madame Verona Comes Down the Hill)
Godverdomse dagen op een godverdomse bol (2008)
De laatste liefde van mijn moeder (2010)
De zeven laatste zinnen (2010)
Monoloog van iemand die het gewoon werd tegen zichzelf te praten (2011)
De intrede van Christus in Brussel (2011, Entry of Christ into Brussels)
De laatkomer (2013)
Kaddisj voor een kut (2014)
Bloedboek (2015)
De zomer hou je ook niet tegen (2015, Boekenweekgeschenk)
Het leven gezien van beneden (2016)
Spoo Pee Doo (2016)
Stoppen met roken in 87 gedichten (2017)
De pruimenpluk (2019)
Hebben en zijn (2022)


Awards
Publieksprijs Gouden Uil for De helaasheid der dingen (2007)
De Inktaap for De helaasheid der dingen (2008)
Beste Boek 2008 HUMO's Pop Poll for Godverdomse dagen op een godverdomse bol (2009)
Libris Literatuurprijs for Godverdomse dagen op een godverdomse bol (2009)


See also

Flemish literature


References

Song Mingqiong
Song Mingqiong  (Chinese: 宋鳴瓊, 1750/52–1802), courtesy name Wanxian, was a Chinese poet of the Qing dynasty.
She wrote thousands of poems during her lifetime, but perhaps only one-fifth of the poems have survived.


Biography
Song Mingqiong was from Beixiang (北鄉), Fengxin, Jiangxi.
The fifth of seven children of the scholar Song Wuren (宋五仁), she learned to read and write from her father and brothers.
According to the local gazetteer (Fengxin xianzhi, 奉新縣志) she could read at the age of four, write poetry at the age of eight, and write fu prose-poems at the age of nine.
At the age of 14 she married Tu Jianxuan (涂建萱), also a native of Fengxin, and moved with him to Wenzhou when he took up an official position.
Their marriage was cut short by his death seven years later.
The next three decades saw her living out her life as a widow, bringing up a daughter and two adopted sons, and burying her parents and parents-in-law.
Many of her days were spent reading poetry from her collection.
She often sent her poems to her siblings and their children, and it was through their connections that her poems enjoyed wide acclaim.


Dream of the Red Chamber poems
She was one of the earliest women to write poems reflecting on her reading of the novel Dream of the Red Chamber.
Evidence exists that she published the four poems in 1791, when the novel was still banned by the Qing government.
In these poems, she criticized traditional marriages and expressed support for free love.
All four poems have been translated into English by Ellen Widmer.


Bibliography
Weixue xuan shicao (味雪軒詩草, "Poems from Weixue Pavilion", published in 1791)
Biegao (別稿; "Supplement")
Chunqiu waizhuan (春秋外傳; "Ancillary to the Spring and Autumn Annals")
Her other poems are found in anthologies compiled by Cai Dianqi (蔡殿齊) and Huang Zhimo (黃秩模).


References


External links
Chinese texts of Song Mingqiong's poems., McGill University

Gijsbrecht IV of Amstel
Gijsbrecht IV of Amstel or Gijsbrecht IV van Amstel (c. 1235 – c. 1303) was a powerful lord in the medieval County of Holland and a member of the Van Aemstel family.
His territory was Amstelland, and his son was Jan I of Amstel.


Life
His family probably originated from Ouderkerk aan de Amstel, now in the province of North Holland.
They derived their name from their castle on the River Amstel, and tried to create an independent principality between Utrecht and Holland.
To this end Gijsbrecht IV—along with the other powerful lords Zweder of Abcoude, Arnoud of Amstel, and Herman VI of Woerden—instigated a revolt against Floris V, Count of Holland, and John I, Bishop-Elect of Utrecht.
They held lands on the border with the adjacent Bishopric of Utrecht—the area of Amsterdam, Abcoude, IJsselstein, and Woerden—at the expense of the bishop, and were backed by the craftsmen of Utrecht, the peasants of Kennemerland—Alkmaar and surroundings—Waterland, Amstelland and the West Frisians.
However, when Floris made a treaty with the craftsmen and made concessions to the peasants (Kennemerland was a duneland, where the farmers had far fewer rights than the farmers in the polders), the revolt was brought to an abrupt halt.
In 1278, Floris captured Gjisbrecht and exiled Herman.
The bishop of Utrecht eventually (in 1279 or 1281) also added the lands of the rebellious lords to Floris's territory in retribution.
Gijsbrecht changed sides when opportune, and some accounts allege him to have been involved in Floris's later capture and assassination.
After his resulting exile, he likely settled in Oss in the Duchy of Brabant.
He died in exile in Flanders, though Professor Pim de Boer at the University of Groningen has found serious, though not entirely conclusive, indications that Gijsbrecht—after his exile, with a few followers—founded Pruissisch Holland, not far from Elbing.


Popular culture
He was the eponymous hero of a play by Joost van den Vondel, Gijsbrecht van Aemstel.
This was set during the siege of 1304, and he switched him with his son Jan.
Through this mistaken-identity, Gijsbrecht has become a hero of Amsterdam, with a statue in the Beurs van Berlage and a city park in southern Amsterdam named after him, the Gijsbrecht van Aemstelpark.


External links
 Media related to Gijsbrecht IV of Amstel at Wikimedia Commons

Ilya Baglay
Ilya Baglay (Belarusian: Ілья Баглай; Russian: Илья Баглай; born 21 April 1998) is a Belarusian professional footballer who plays Lida.


References


External links
Ilya Baglay at FootballFacts.ru (in Russian)

Lizunovo
Lizunovo (Russian: Лизуново) is a rural locality (a village) in Karinskoye Rural Settlement, Alexandrovsky District, Vladimir Oblast, Russia.
The population was 304 as of 2010.
There are 19 streets.


Geography
Lizunovo is located 26 km southwest of Alexandrov (the district's administrative centre) by road.
Grigorovo is the nearest rural locality.


References

Republicans, Get in My Vagina
Republicans, Get in My Vagina is a 2012 American short film starring Andrea Savage, Judy Greer and Kate Beckinsale.
 It was written and directed by Andrea Savage.


Cast
Andrea Savage as Woman # 1 
Judy Greer as Woman # 2 
Kate Beckinsale as Woman # 3 


References


External links
Republicans, Get in My Vagina at IMDb

Man with a Glove
Man with a Glove (French: L'Homme au Gant) is an oil-on-canvas portrait by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, painted c. 1520.
It is part of the collections of the Musée du Louvre, Paris.


History
The work originates from the Gonzaga family's collection at Mantua.
It was acquired by Charles I of England in 1627.
Sometime after his beheading in 1649, the painting was auctioned and bought by the Cologne banker Eberhard Jabach.
Eventually, it came in the possession of Louis XIV of France, and was transferred from the Palace of Versailles to the Louvre in 1792.
The figure has not been identified with certainty.
He could be Girolamo Adorno, mentioned in a 1527 letter from Pietro Aretino to Federico Gonzaga, or Giambattista Malatesta, an agent of the Gonzaga in Venice.
According to another hypothesis, he could be Ferrante Gonzaga, who was sixteen years old in 1523.


Description
The painting portrays a three-quarters view of a male figure set against a flat black background.
He appears to be looking at an indefinite point to the left of the canvas, with his left arm laid on his knee.
He could be pointing at his gloves, which were a fashion statement at the time.
He is dressed in a wide jacket and a white shirt, in the fashion of the period.
The man's gloved left hand holds a second leather glove; an accessory used by the most refined gentlemen of the time.
His right hand is adorned with a golden ring, a symbol of richness, and a necklace decorated with a sapphire and a pearl.
The use of a parapet in portraits was a common device of the young Titian.


In literature and popular culture
In Henry James's 1903 book The Ambassadors, Maria Gostrey is introduced by Strether to Little Bilham, in front of the "overwhelming portrait of the young man with the strangely-shaped glove and the blue-grey eyes" in the Louvre.

In John P.
Marquand's 1936 book The Late George Apley, the fictional protagonist George Apley is painted by John Singer Sargent.
  The portrait is remarked to exhibit a character of a refined gentleman similar to the one in this Titian portrait.
  
In Fred Saberhagen's Berserker series in the short story Patron of the Arts (first appeared in Worlds of If, Aug 1965), a human artist and a Berserker machine discuss the value of art and of this specific painting on a starship in the future after a space battle near the Sol system.
In this short story, the Earth-Descended peoples place all of humanity's important artworks on an evacuation starship to preserve the works by sending them to Tau Epsilon.
In Albert Camus' 1971 novel A Happy Death, a character called Eliane, whom Patrice Meursault describes as an Idealist, thinks that she looks like the figure from the painting and even has various reproductions of the painting decorating her room.


See also
List of works by Titian


Notes


References
Rosand, David (1978).
Titian.
Library of Great Painters.
New York: Harry N.
Abrams.
126–27.
ISBN 0-8109-1654-1


External links
Display caption at the Musée du Louvre.
(in French)

Scott O'Dell
Scott O'Dell (May 23, 1898 – October 15, 1989) was an American writer of 26 novels for young people, along with three novels for adults and four nonfiction books.
He wrote historical fiction, primarily, including several children's novels about historical California and Mexico.
For his contribution as a children's writer he received the biennial, international Hans Christian Andersen Award in 1972, the highest recognition available to creators of children's books.
He received The University of Southern Mississippi Medallion in 1976 and the Catholic Libraries Association Regina Medal in 1978.
O'Dell's best known work is the historical novel Island of the Blue Dolphins (1960), which won the 1961 Newbery Medal and the 1963 Deutscher Jugendliteraturpreis in its German translation.
It was also named to the Lewis Carroll Shelf Award list.
He was one of the annual Newbery runners-up for three other books: The King's Fifth (1966), The Black Pearl (1967), and Sing Down the Moon (1970).


Biography
Scott O'Dell was born on May 23,1898 as "O'Dell Gabriel Scott", but after his name was incorrectly published on a book as "Scott O'Dell", he decided to keep the name.
He was born on Terminal Island in Los Angeles, California, to parents May Elizabeth Gabriel and Bennett Mason Scott.
He attended multiple colleges, including Occidental College in 1919, the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1920, Stanford University in 1921, and the Sapienza University of Rome in 1925.
During World War II, he served in the United States Army Air Forces.
Before becoming a full-time writer, he was employed as a cameraman and technical director, as a book columnist for the Los Angeles Mirror, and as book review editor for the Los Angeles Daily News.
He was married two times.
His wives were Jane Dorsa Rattenbury, and Elizabeth Hall.
In 1934, O'Dell began writing articles as well as fiction and nonfiction books for adults.
In the late 1950s, he began writing children's books.
His first children's book was Island of the Blue Dolphins.
In the 1950s, O'Dell lived in the gold rush mountain town of Julian, California, east of San Diego, where he said he found quiet and motivation to write.
In 1984, he established the Scott O'Dell Award for Historical Fiction, an award of $5,000 that recognizes outstanding works of historical fiction.
 The winners must be published in English by a U.S.
publisher and be set in the New World (North, Central, and South America).
 In 1986, The Bulletin of the Center for Children's Books awarded O'Dell this same award.
Scott O'Dell died of prostate cancer on October 15, 1989, at the age of 91.
His ashes were sprinkled into the Pacific Ocean off La Jolla.


Film adaptations
There have been several film adaptations of O'Dell's work.
 Island of the Blue Dolphins has been translated into a number of languages and was made into a movie in 1964, starring Celia Kaye, Larry Domasin, Ann Daniel, and George Kennedy.
In 1978, Saul Swimmer produced and directed a film version of The Black Pearl with Gilbert Roland and Mario Custodio.
The King's Fifth served as inspiration for the 1982 anime television series The Mysterious Cities of Gold, a Japan-France co-production that was aired in several different countries.


Selected works


Nonfiction
Representative Photoplays Analyzed, Palmer Institute of Authorship 1/1924
Country of the Sun (Southern California, an Informal Guide), Thomas Y.
Crowell Co.
1/1957


Children's book series
Karana
Island of the Blue Dolphins, Houghton Mifflin 1/1960, ISBN 0-605-21314-3
Zia, Houghton Mifflin 3/1976, ISBN 0-395-24393-9
Seven Serpents
The Captive, Houghton Mifflin 1/1979, ISBN 0-395-27811-2
Feathered Serpent, Houghton Mifflin 10/1981, ISBN 0-395-30851-8
The Amethyst Ring, Houghton Mifflin 4/1983, ISBN 0-395-33886-7
omnibus Seven Serpents Trilogy, Sourcebooks Jabberwocky 3/2009, ISBN 1-4022-1836-2


Other novels
Woman of Spain (a Story of Old California), Houghton Mifflin 1934
Hill of the Hawk (Novel of Early California), Houghton Mifflin 1/1947
latest edition: Kessinger Publishing 9/2010, ISBN 978-1-163-37182-4
The Sea is Red, Henry Holt and Company 1958
Journey to Jericho, Houghton Mifflin 8/1964, ISBN 978-0-395-19839-1
The King's Fifth, Houghton Mifflin 9/1966, ISBN 0-395-06963-7
The Black Pearl, Houghton Mifflin 1/1967, ISBN 0-395-06963-7
Dark Canoe, illustrated by Milton Johnson, Houghton Mifflin 1/1968
latest edition: Sourcebooks Jabberwocky 9/2008, ISBN 1-4022-1334-4
Sing Down the Moon, Houghton Mifflin 9/1970, ISBN 0-395-10919-1
Treasure of Topo-El-Bampo, Houghton Mifflin 2/1972, ISBN 0-395-12576-6
Cruise of the Arctic Star, Houghton Mifflin 3/1973, ISBN 0-395-16034-0
The Child of Fire, Houghton Mifflin 9/1974, ISBN 0-395-19496-2
The Hawk That Dare Not Hunt by Day, Houghton Mifflin 9/1975,
The 290, Houghton Mifflin 10/1976, ISBN 0-395-24737-3
Carlota, Houghton Mifflin 10/1977, ISBN 0-395-25487-6
Kathleen Please Come Home, Houghton Mifflin 5/1978, ISBN 0-395-26453-7
Daughter of Don Saturnino, Oxford University Press 3/1979, ISBN 0-19-271429-5
Sarah Bishop (They Took Away Her Home and Her Family), Houghton Mifflin 1/1980
latest edition: San Val 10/1999, ISBN 0-8085-5778-5
The Spanish Smile, Houghton Mifflin 10/1982, ISBN 0-395-32867-5
Castle in the Sea, Houghton Mifflin 10/1983, ISBN 0-395-34831-5
Alexandra, Houghton Mifflin 4/1984, ISBN 0-395-35571-0
The Road to Damietta, Houghton Mifflin 10/1985, ISBN 0-395-38923-2
Streams to River, River to the Sea (a Novel of Sacagawea), Houghton Mifflin 4/1986, ISBN 0-395-40430-4
The Serpent Never Sleeps (a Novel of Jamestown and Pocahontas), Houghton Mifflin 9/1987, ISBN 978-0547561998
Black Star, Bright Dawn, Houghton Mifflin 1/1988
latest edition: Graphia 3/2008, ISBN 0-547-05319-3
My Name Is Not Angelica, Houghton Mifflin 10/1989, ISBN 0-395-51061-9
Thunder Rolling in the Mountains, with Elizabeth Hall, Houghton Mifflin 4/1992, ISBN 978-0-395-59966-2
Venus Among the Fishes, with Elizabeth Hall, Houghton Mifflin 4/1995, ISBN 978-0-395-70561-2


References

Other sources
Commire, Anne (ed.) (1990).
Something About the Author Vol.
60.
Gale Research Inc.: Detroit.


External links

ScottOdell.com (some first-person content)
Scott O'Dell papers at University of Oregon Libraries
Scott O'Dell at Library of Congress, with 56 library catalog records
Scott O'Dell at Wikisummaries

Kiyosu-e Formation
The Kiyosu-e Formation is a Middle Jurassic (Callovian) to Early Cretaceous (Berriasian) geologic formation of the Toyonishi Group in Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan.
Fossil ornithopod tracks have been reported from the formation.


Fossil content
The following fossils have been reported from the formation:

Ichnofossils
Iguanodontidae indet.
Theropoda indet.
Flora
Regnellites nagashimae
Otozamites sp.


See also
List of dinosaur-bearing rock formations
List of stratigraphic units with ornithischian tracks
Ornithopod tracks


References


Bibliography
Weishampel, David B.; Dodson, Peter; Osmólska, Halszka (2004), The Dinosauria, 2nd edition, Berkeley: University of California Press, pp.
1–880, ISBN 0-520-24209-2, retrieved 2019-02-21{{citation}}:  CS1 maint: publisher location (link)
Yamada, T.; Kato, M.
(2002), "Regnellites nagashimae gen.
et sp.
nov., the oldest macrofossil of Marsileaceae from the upper Jurassic to lower Cretaceous of western Japan", International Journal of Plant Sciences, 163 (5): 715–723, doi:10.1086/342036
Azuma, Y.; Tomida, Y.
(1997), Japanese dinosaurs in P.
J.
Currie, K.
Padian, Encyclopedia of Dinosaurs, pp.
375–379

Belaya Glina
Belaya Glina (Russian: Бе́лая Гли́на) is the name of several rural localities in Russia:

Belaya Glina, Krasnodar Krai, a selo in Beloglinsky Rural Okrug of Beloglinsky District of Krasnodar Krai
Belaya Glina, Sverdlovsk Oblast, a village in Verkhotursky District of Sverdlovsk Oblast

Ködnitz
Ködnitz is a municipality in the district of Kulmbach in Bavaria in Germany.


Municipal division
Ködnitz is arranged in the following boroughs:

Ebersbach
Fölschnitz
Forstlasmühle
Haaghof
Hauenreuth
Heinersreuth
Höllgraben
Kauerndorf
Ködnitz
Leithen
Listenberg
Meierhof
Mühlberg
Pinsenhof


References

1480s in architecture
Events
1482 – Francesco di Giorgio Martini, Trattato di architettura, ingegneria e arte militare ("Treatise of Architecture, Engineering and Military Art") is completed after this date
1485 – Leon Battista Alberti, De Re Aedificatoria (written 1443–52) becomes the first printed work on architecture


Buildings and structures


Buildings

1480 – Ancienne Douane (Colmar) completed.
c.1480
Great Barn, Hales Hall, Loddon, Norfolk, England, completed.
Bayt al-Razzaz palace, Cairo, Egypt, original building completed.
1481 – Palazzo Loredan on the Grand Canal (Venice), designed by Mauro Codussi, is begun (completed 1509).
1482–1489 – Ginkaku-ji ("Temple of the Silver Pavilion") in Kyoto, Japan, is constructed.
1483–1488 – Church of Mariä Krönung (Lautenbach) consecrated and completed.
1483 – The Changgyeonggung of Korea is completed.
1484–1489 – Koyunbaba Bridge in Anatolia is constructed.
1484 – Palazzo Medici in Florence, begun by Michelozzo c.1444/45, is completed.
1486 – Rebuilding at Metz Cathedral begins.
1487 – Italian architects begin to build the Moscow Kremlin.
1489 – Église Saint-Maurice, Soultz-Haut-Rhin completed (started in 1270)


Births
1483: April 6 – Raphael, Italian painter and architect (died 1520)
1484: April 12 – Antonio da Sangallo the Younger, Italian architect (died 1546)
1486: July 2 – Jacopo Sansovino, Italian sculptor and architect (died 1570)
1489: April 15 – Mimar Sinan, Ottoman Turkish architect (died 1588)


Deaths
c.
1481 – Guiniforte Solari, Milanese sculptor, architect and engineer (born c.
1429)


References

Memleben Abbey
Memleben Abbey (German: Kloster Memleben) was a Benedictine monastery in Memleben on the Unstrut river, today part of the Kaiserpfalz municipality in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany.
The convent, now ruined, was established by Emperor Otto II and his consort Theophanu about 979.


History

The settlement of Mimilebo was already mentioned in an urbarium register of Hersfeld Abbey under the rule of Archbishop Lullus of Mainz (died 786).
A Hersfeld tithe register, compiled between 881 and 899, again documents the locality of Mimileba in the Saxon shire (Gau) of Friesenfeld, west of the Hassegau.


Royal palace
Memleben acquired considerable importance under the Saxon dukes of the Ottonian dynasty about 900.
Duke Otto the Illustrious (d.
912) served as Hersfeld abbot, his son Henry the Fowler married Hatheburg of Merseburg, a daughter of Count Erwin of Merseburg and heiress of large estates in Hassegau und Friesenfeld.
Her brother-in-law, Count Thietmar of Merseburg was one of Henry's tutors.
In 909 the couple separated and Hatheburg again took the veil, nevertheless, Henry retained her Eastphalian estates.
He spent much time in this area; when he succeeded Conrad I as King of East Francia in 919, he had a royal villa in Memleben.
Later greatly enlarged, this Royal Palace (villa regia or Königspfalz) became his favourite residence next only to Quedlinburg.
In 935, while hunting near the royal palace of Bodfeld in the Harz mountains, King Henry seriously fell ill (presumably from a stroke).
According to the reports by Bishop Liutprand of Cremona, he assembled the East Frankish princes in Erfurt the next year, to arrange the succession of his son Otto I, and afterwards retired to the castellum of Memleben, where he died after another stroke on 2 July 936.
His mortal remains were transferred to the Quedlinburg abbey church.
Otto I, like his father, often stayed in Memleben and issued a number of documents from here.
However, no festive ceremonies or diets are documented and parts of the Memleben estates were granted to the newly established Bishops of Zeitz.
Crowned Holy Roman Emperor in 962, Otto apparently planned to celebrate the feast of Pentecost at Memleben in 973.
The sixty-year-old may have felt his end drawing near when he arrived at his father's place of death.
According to the Saxon chronicles by Widukind of Corvey and Thietmar of Merseburg, he died here on 7 May 973 and was buried in Magdeburg Cathedral alongside his first wife Eadgyth.
Legend has it, that although his body was buried in Magdeburg, his heart was buried in Memleben.


Imperial abbey

Otto's son and successor, Emperor Otto II, also issued several documents from Memleben.
In his father's memory, and perhaps as an intended site of dynastic memorial, his son and successor Otto II with his consort Theophanu founded about 979 a Benedictine monastery near his Kaiserpfalz, which within a short time had become one of the richest and most influential of the Imperial abbeys.
Otto II endowed Memleben with large estates and privileges in present-day Thuringia, Saxony-Anhalt and Hesse, several of them formerly held by Hersfeld Abbey, and also tithe privileges in the Friesenfeld and Hassegau counties.
The abbey also received Hevelli lands in the Northern March (present-day Brandenburg), which however were lost in the Great Slav Rising of 983, and further territories in the Saxon Eastern March.
After the early death of Otto II, his son, Otto III, stayed at the abbey several times.
He granted market, mint and customs rights in the Memleben territory in 994 and donated the Thuringian Wiehe estates to the abbey four years later.
He even had plans to make it the centre of a projected See of Thuringia, but died aged 22 in Italy before he was able to act on his intention.
In 1015 the golden age of Memleben Abbey ended.
On his accession in 1002, Henry II, the successor of Otto III, initially had confirmed to Abbot Reinhold of Memleben the privileges and possessions of his predecessors, on par with the Imperial abbeys of Fulda, Corvey and Reichenau.
However, thirteen years later, he substantially disempowered and dispossessed the Memleben community in favour of Hersfeld Abbey, to whom he subordinated it, in return for estates for his pet project, the newly created Bishopric of Bamberg.
The decline of Memleben Abbey, and its Ottonian memoria, was thus ensured.
The Salian emperor Conrad II was the last documented German monarch who stayed at Memleben in 1033.
The Memleben convent existed until in 1525 the abbey was plundered during the German Peasants' War and after a steadily worsening decline in the wake of the Protestant Reformation it was finally dissolved in 1548.
The abbey's estates were taken over by the Electors of Saxony in 1551 and given to the school at Pforta, which had just been re-founded, and which retained possession of them until the end of World War II.


Memleben today

Since the roof of the former abbey church was struck by lightning and destroyed in 1722, several attempts were made later to demolish the rest of the building.
Nevertheless, the remaining ruins are still of interest, particularly the Late Romanesque crypt.
Of the first monumental church building erected in the 10th century, some walls and foundations are preserved, particularly the southwestern transept and crossing piers, as well as the southern side of the nave.
The former monastic buildings were given during the East German period after World War II to an agricultural collective, who made considerable alterations to them.
They now house a museum with a permanent exhibition relating to the royal and monastic history of the abbey and the town, directly perceptible also in an extended monastery garden and a medieval scriptorium.
Memleben is a stop on the scenic Romanesque Road.
Since 2011, the premises are temporarily attended by Benedictine monks from Münsterschwarzach Abbey.


Notes


References
Andert, Reinhold, 1995: Von Ritteburg nach Memleben in Der Thüringer Königshort.
Querfurt: Dingsda-Verlag.
ISBN 3-928498-45-2
Größler, Hermann, nd: Führer durch das Unstruttal von Artern nach Naumburg, reprinted by Dingsda-Verlag, Querfurt, 1995.
ISBN 3-928498-04-5
Kühnlenz, Fritz, 1992: Städte und Burgen an der Unstrut, 1st edition.
 Greifenverlag.
ISBN 3-7352-0293-4 (also special edition, 1999, Verlagshaus Thüringen, ISBN 3-89683-121-6)
Wittmann, Helge, 2001: Memleben: Königspfalz — Reichskloster — Probstei.
Imhof Petersberg.
ISBN 3-932526-92-9


External links

Kloster Memleben  - official site (in German)
Memleben (in German)

Viñals
Viñals is a surname.
Notable people with the surname include:

Jaime Viñals (born 1966), Guatemalan mountaineer
José Viñals (born 1954), Spanish economist and businessman


See also
Viñales (disambiguation)

Bisoye Tejuoso
Chief Esther Bisoye Tejuoso (1916 – 19 September 1996) was a Nigerian businesswoman from Abeokuta.
She was born into the family of an Egba farmer who was also a chief in Abeokuta.
She herself held the chieftaincy of the Iyalode, a fact which made her very prominent in Egba affairs.


Life
Tejuosho was born into an Egba royal family, her grandfather was Oba Karunwi, Osile of Oke-Ona, Abeokuta.
She studied at Igbein Primary School, Abeokuta before attending Idi Aba Teacher's Training College, Abeokuta.
At 18 years old, she married a teacher, Joseph Somoye Tejuoso and later accompanied him to Zaria, where he was working.
At Zaria, Tejuoso thrived in trading foodstuff with southern Nigerians; she used the railway to transport goods from Zaria to Lagos.
In the early 1950s, she became an agent for the United African Company, and in later years, added Vono industries to her list of suppliers.
She became very successful during this period and acquired real estate in various parts of the country.
In the early 1960s, she was a major dealer of Vono mattresses in Broad St and was approached by a Norwegian businessman for a partnership in a foam manufacturing venture.
The partnership took off in 1964 when Nigerian Polyurethane Ltd started producing its own brand of Cool Foams.


Career and death
In 1970, after disagreeing with her partners in a foam and carpet manufacturing venture, she decided to build her own factory.
She got a loan from the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank and established, Teju Industries, a firm specialized in foam manufacturing.
Over the years, she ventured out to other businesses.
She is remembered as a pioneering woman who attained the summit of financial independence and success.
She was murdered on 19 September 1996 at age 80 amid controversy over the obaship of Egbaland.
To date, her murder has not been solved by Nigerian authorities.


See also
List of unsolved murders (1980–1999)


References

Exilia hilgendorfi
Exilia hilgendorfi is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusc in the family Ptychatractidae.


Description
The length of the shell attains 90.5 mm.


Distribution
This marine species occurs off Madagascar; also off the east coast of Japan, from the Boso peninsula and Hachijo Island southwards (50–480 m depth) to the South China Sea (339–633 m depth) and the Solomon Islands (504–862 m depth).


References

Yokoyama M.
(1920).
Fossils from the Miura Peninsula and its immediate north.
Journal of the College of Science, Tokyo Imperial University.
39(6): 1–193, 20 pls.
Kantor Yu.I., Bouchet P.
& Oleinik A.
2001.
A revision of the Recent species of Exilia, formerly Benthovoluta (Gastropoda: Turbinellidae).
Ruthenica 11(2): 81–136.
Spencer, H.G., Marshall, B.A.
& Willan, R.C.
(2009).
Checklist of New Zealand living Mollusca.
pp 196–219.
in: Gordon, D.P.
(ed.) New Zealand inventory of biodiversity.
Volume one.
Kingdom Animalia: Radiata, Lophotrochozoa, Deuterostomia.
Canterbury University Press, Christchurch.


External links
Martens E.
von.
(1897).
Conchologische Miscellen II.
Archiv für Naturgeschichte.
63(1): 157-180, pls 15-17
Kantor Y.I., Puillandre N.
& Bouchet P.
(2020).
The challenge of integrative taxonomy of rare, deep-water gastropods: the genus Exilia (Neogastropoda: Turbinelloidea: Ptychatractidae).
Journal of Molluscan Studies.
86: 120-138

Savile Town
Savile Town is a suburb of Dewsbury, Kirklees, West Yorkshire, England, lying just to the south of the River Calder.
It consists of late Victorian housing, which varies between long terraces, semi-detached and detached housing.
The mills on the banks of the Calder supplied employment to Savile Town for several decades; these were mostly woollen, and some cotton.
As the mills closed, the area became run-down.


History
The area is named for Thomas Savile, who once owned the townships of Dewsbury and Thornhill.
He also gave his name to the bridge that leads to the town centre and founded Wakefield Cathedral and Queen Elizabeth Grammar School.
There are several roads in Dewsbury, Ossett and Wakefield that have "Savile" in their names.
There were once two collieries named "Savile"; one on Owl Lane at the Dewsbury-Ossett border, and one near Methley.
Prior to 1910, Savile Town was part of the Thornhill Urban District.
In 1910, the district was abolished, and the area became part of the town of Dewsbury.


Demographics
Savile Town is perhaps most famous for its role in the British Muslim community, with the 2021 census recording an 89.6% Muslim population.
As reported in 2016, fewer than one per cent of the suburb's residents were White British with the subsequent white flight resulting in Savile Town having the smallest indigenous percentage in the United Kingdom.
The area is home to the Markazi mosque, one of the largest mosques in Europe, which follows the Tablighi Jamaat school of thought.
In a report published in 2017, the 'Kumon Y'all' Equality and Human Rights Commission quoted one person as saying "[White] people were afraid to come to Savile Town [because of the threat of racial abuse and violence]".
Author and political advisor Ed Husain described the area as becoming a "quiet caliphate" separate from wider society.
Savile Town's demographics have been largely influenced by its industrial past, which required an influx of workers from India and Pakistan, who ended up migrating to the area due to demand from British factory owners.


Education
Savile Town has one primary school and one religious secondary school.
In 2021, Ofsted failed the Markazi Masjid secondary school after a book named Islam on Homosexuality, which called for the execution of homosexuals, was found in the school library.
The school's leaders defended the book as being held for 'research' purposes, although the headteacher "was clear that it should not have been in the library." Ofsted said that the book 'breached the Equality Act 2010 and undermined fundamental British values'.
Their report showed that they had been asked to investigate the school after two complaints had been made.
The February 2020 inspection rated it Inadequate, the worst rating which could be given.
The 2021 report highlighted a number of other areas of concern, including a "weak culture of safeguarding".


Notable residents
Mohammad Sidique Khan, the leader of the 2005 London bombings, lived in Savile Town.
Britain's youngest convicted Islamist extremist, Hamaad Munshi and Britain's youngest suicide bomber, Talha Asmal were also from Savile Town.
Hamaad Munshi's brother, Hasaan Munshi was also from Savile Town and was believed to have fled the UK to join the Islamic State terrorist organisation in 2015.
Baroness Sayeeda Warsi, a British lawyer, politician and member of the House of Lords grew up in Savile Town in the 1970s and 1980s.


Football club
Savile Town is also home to a Sunday league football club called Savile Town FC.
It was most recently awarded FA Charted Development Club Of The Year.
Its home ground is Savile Town Park on Park Road.


References

The Boat Race 2002
The 148th Boat Race took place on 30 March 2002.
Oxford won the race by three-quarters of a length, one of the narrowest margins of victory in the history of the contest.
In the reserve race Isis beat Goldie; Oxford also won the Women's race.


Background
The Boat Race is an annual competition between the universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
 First held in 1829, the competition is a 4.2-mile (6.8 km) race along the River Thames in southwest London.
 The rivalry is a major point of honour between the two universities and followed throughout the United Kingdom and worldwide.
 Cambridge went into the race as reigning champions, having won the 2001 race by 2.5 lengths, and led overall with 77 victories to Oxford's 69 (excluding the "dead heat" of 1877).
 The race was sponsored by Aberdeen Asset Management for the third consecutive year.
The first Women's Boat Race took place in 1927, but did not become an annual fixture until the 1960s.
Until 2014, the contest was conducted as part of the Henley Boat Races, but as of the 2015 race, it is held on the River Thames, on the same day as the men's main and reserve races.
The reserve race, contested between Oxford's Isis boat and Cambridge's Goldie boat has been held since 1965.
 It usually takes place on the Tideway, prior to the main Boat Race.


Crews

Despite weighing just over 1 pound (0.45 kg) less per man than their opponents, Cambridge were the pre-race favourites.
  Both boats contained four Blues; the Oxford cox Peter Hackworth attended St Paul's School while Cambridge's cox Ellie Griggs attended St Paul's Girls' School, so both were familiar with the course.
 Oxford's crew contained two American international rowers in Dan Perkins and Luke McGee, and Gerritjan Eggenkamp, a Dutch international.
 Cambridge's stroke, Rick Dunn, cousin of Oxford's bow Andrew Dunn, was a world champion in coxless fours, and he rowed alongside fellow British internationals Tom Stallard and Josh West.
 Cambridge's other international rowers included American Sam Brooks, German Sebastian Mayer and Australian Stu Welch.

(P) – Boat Club President


Race description

Cambridge won the coin toss and elected to start from the northern bank (the "Middlesex side") of the Thames.
 Despite Cambridge's cox Griggs having her hand raised (to indicate that she and the Cambridge crew were not yet ready to commence), race umpire Simon Harris started the race.
 With a stroke rate of 51, Oxford took an early lead, but Cambridge pulled level as the crews passed Craven Cottage.
 Taking a slight lead round the Surrey bend, Cambridge's number four, Mayer suffered an asthma attack and showed signs of struggle, allowing Oxford to draw up to within a second as they approached Barnes Bridge.
 In a sprint finish, Oxford pulled away to be three-quarters of a length clear at the finishing post.
Oxford finished with a time of 16 minutes, 54 seconds, Cambridge finishing two seconds behind them, three-quarters of a length behind.
It was Oxford's second victory in the previous three years, and brought the overall result to 77–70 in Cambridge's favour.
  At the finish, following tradition, the Oxford crew threw their cox, Hackworth, into the water in celebration.
 Mayer was hospitalised minutes after the race, initially considered a result of exhaustion, but later diagnosed as following an asthma attack.
In the reserve race, Oxford's Isis beat Cambridge's Goldie.
 Earlier at Henley, Oxford won the 57th women's race by 2+1⁄2 lengths.


Reaction
Hackworth said "it was neck and neck, but I had absolute belief we could do it".
 Four-time Olympic gold medallist Matthew Pinsent said of the race "it truly was amazing".
 Cambridge coach Robin Williams was generous in defeat: "Credit to Oxford.
They did an awesome job and took their chance.
It was a fantastic race", while Oxford's coach Sean Bowden said "I believed that if we could get through Barnes Bridge well we could still do it.
 They were rowing so well and I knew how much they wanted it." Simon Barnes of The Times noted that "Cambridge reeled in an early Oxford lead and went ahead themselves ...
that should have been the end of it...
But this Oxford crew just kept pestering away ...
and, with the finish in sight, Cambridge ...
yielded."


References


External links
Official website

Gentianella montana
Gentianella montana is a species of flowering plant, endemic to New Zealand.
It is found on both the North and South Island.


Description
A small flower with white petals.
Perennial.


Etymology
Montana comes from Latin and refers to the habitat of the flower, in mountainous areas.


Taxonomy
Gentianella montana contains the following subspecies:

Gentianella montana stolonifera
Gentianella montana ionostigma
Gentianella montana montana


References

Bukovka
Bukovka is a municipality and village in Pardubice District in the Pardubice Region of the Czech Republic.
It has about 400 inhabitants.


Administrative division
Bukovka consists of two municipal parts (in brackets population according to the 2021 census):

Bukovka (252)
Habřinka (130)


Demographics


References


External links

Official website

Promised Land (Rurutia album)
"Promised Land" is the third album of Japanese singer-songwriter Rurutia.
It
reached No.
111 on Oricon and charted for a week.


Track listing
Source:

Hallelujah (ハレルヤ)
neo
arabesque (アラベスク)
Sincere (シンシア)
Toroimerai (トロイメライ)
Giselle (ジゼル)
Nagareboshi (流れ星)
Merry (メリー)
GOLA
Tsuki Sen'ichiya (月千一夜)
maururu roa


References

Jason Hammel
Jason Aaron Hammel (born September 2, 1982) is an American former professional baseball pitcher.
He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays/Rays, Colorado Rockies, Baltimore Orioles, Oakland Athletics, Chicago Cubs, and Kansas City Royals.


Amateur career
Hammel was born in Greenville, South Carolina, but raised in Port Orchard, Washington.
He attended South Kitsap High School in Port Orchard, Washington, and led the team to a 20–1 season in 2000 as the number one starter in the rotation.
Hammel was drafted in the 23rd round by the Seattle Mariners, but opted instead to attend Treasure Valley Community College in Ontario, Oregon.
He played collegiate summer league ball for the Wenatchee AppleSox of the West Coast League.


Professional career


Tampa Bay Devil Rays/Rays (2006–2008)

The Tampa Bay Devil Rays selected Hammel in the 10th round of the 2002 MLB Draft.
He made his major league debut on April 11, 2006, against the Baltimore Orioles and got his first victory as a starter on September 2, 2007, against the New York Yankees.
On July 17, 2006, while with the Durham Bulls, he threw 8 1/3 innings of a combined no hitter on July 17, 2006 with Juan Salas getting the final two outs, beating the Columbus Clippers 4-1.


Colorado Rockies (2009–2011)
On April 5, 2009, the Rays traded Hammel to the Colorado Rockies for pitching prospect Aneury Rodríguez.
On October 11, 2009, Hammel started game three of the 2009 National League Division Series against the Philadelphia Phillies.
Though he looked strong initially, he ended up allowing four earned runs and the Rockies went on to lose the game.
Hammel agreed to a two-year contract with the Rockies before the 2011 season.


Baltimore Orioles (2012–2013)

The Rockies traded Hammel to the Baltimore Orioles, along with pitcher Matt Lindstrom, for pitcher Jeremy Guthrie on February 6, 2012.
In his Orioles debut, he took a no-hit bid into the 8th inning, with the Orioles eventually winning, 3–1, over the Minnesota Twins.
On June 16, 2012, Hammel led the Orioles to a 5–0 victory over the Atlanta Braves, holding the Braves to one hit over nine innings.
It was the first complete game shutout of his career and the first complete game by an Orioles pitcher in the 2012 season.
On July 15, 2012, Hammel was placed on the 15-day disabled list to have a right knee surgery.
Hammel started for the Orioles on Opening Day in 2013.
On June 1, 2013, during a game against the Tigers, Hammel was ejected for the first time in his career, by home plate umpire Hunter Wendelstedt.
Hammel had given up three consecutive home runs and his next pitch hit Matt Tuiasosopo in the shoulder with a slider.


Chicago Cubs (2014)
On January 31, 2014, Hammel signed a one-year, $6 million contract with the Chicago Cubs.
Before being traded, he compiled an 8–5 win–loss record to go with a 2.98 ERA and 104 SO.


Oakland Athletics (2014)
On July 4, 2014, the Cubs traded Hammel, along with pitcher Jeff Samardzija, to the Oakland Athletics in exchange for top shortstop prospect Addison Russell, pitcher Dan Straily, outfielder Billy McKinney, and a player to be named later.
After the trade with the A's, he recorded a 4.26 ERA and a 2–6 win–loss record.


Return to Cubs (2015–2016)
On December 8, 2014, after becoming a free agent following the end of the 2014 season, Hammel agreed to terms on a two-year, $20 million deal to return to the Chicago Cubs.
Hammel finished the 2015 season with a 10–7 record and a 3.74 ERA.
He had the highest line drive percentage allowed (24.5%) of all major league pitchers.
In game four of the 2015 National League Division Series vs.
the St.
Louis Cardinals, Hammel was the starting pitcher and pitched only 3 innings allowing three hits, two runs, one home run, and walked three batters with a no decision in the Cubs' 6–4 win over the Cardinals.
Hammel also was the starting pitcher in game four of the 2015 National League Championship Series vs.
the New York Mets.
He only pitched 1+1⁄3 innings, allowing four hits, five runs, two home runs, and walked two batters with the loss in the Cubs' 8–3 loss against the Mets.
Hammel finished the first half of the 2016 MLB season with a solid 7–5 record and a 3.46 ERA.
Hammel finished the season with a 15–10 record and a 3.83 ERA.
Although he was not included on the Cubs' postseason roster, Hammel received his first World Series ring.
On November 5, 2016, the Cubs declined Hammel's option for 2017 and he became a free agent.


Kansas City Royals (2017–2018)
On February 8, 2017, Hammel signed a two-year, $16 million contract with the Kansas City Royals.
The contract includes a mutual option for the 2019 season.
In his first season in Kansas City, Hammel struggled throughout the season, posting a record of 8-13 with a career worst 5.29 ERA in 180+1⁄3 innings.
Hammel began the 2018 season in the rotation but posted an ERA of 6.15 in 18 starts and was demoted to the bullpen.
Overall, in 39 appearances with 18 starts, Hammel finished the season with a 6.02 ERA and a record of 4-14 in 127 innings.
On October 30, 2018, the Royals declined his 2019 option, making him a free agent.


Texas Rangers (2019)
On February 1, 2019, Hammel signed a minor-league contract with the Texas Rangers.
On March 22, 2019, the Texas Rangers announced that Hammel had made the opening day roster.


Retirement
On March 23, 2019, Hammel announced his retirement from baseball.


Pitching style
Hammel throws a mix of five pitches: a four-seam fastball at 92–95 mph, a two-seam fastball (his lead pitch) at the same speed, a slider in the mid 80s, a curveball in the upper 70s, and a changeup in the high 80s.
He uses all of his pitches against left-handed hitters, but eliminates the changeup against right-handers.
His chief off-speed pitch with 2 strikes is the slider.
Prior to the 2012 season Hammel relied mostly on the four-seamer, slider, and curve.
In 2012, he shifted to a sinker/slider focus, with the other pitches playing less of a role.
All of his pitches except the changeup produced above-average whiff rates in 2012, leading to a career-high K/9 rate of 8.6


Personal life
Hammel met Elissa Nichols in 2006 and they married in 2009.
Together they have a son and a daughter.
They resided in the Lake View neighborhood of Chicago but sold the home in 2021 and moved to the Northeastern United States.


See also

List of Colorado Rockies team records


References


External links

Career statistics from MLB · ESPN · Baseball Reference · Fangraphs · Baseball Reference (Minors) · Retrosheet · Baseball Almanac

Coat of arms of Cusco
The coat of arms of Cusco is the official coat of arms of the city of Cusco, Peru, and is also used by the region, the province, and the district with the same name.
Its current version was approved by the Provincial Council of Cusco in a solemn session on July 23, 1986.


Coat of arms

The historian and university professor from Cusco, David Vicente de Rojas Silva, cited by Angles Vargas, shows that Guamán Poma de Ayala included in his chronicle two drawings corresponding to the first and second coats of arms of Cusco during the Incan Empire.
Both are quartered Iberian-style shields corresponding to two successive dynasties, the first with divine evocations and the second with royal attributes.
The first shield contains a sun, a moon, a star, and the idol of Wanakaure on Paqarejtampo.
The second contains the Qori-q'enque bird, a jaguar, a mascaypacha, and a double serpent.
Rojas Silva indicates that the dean Diego de Esquivel y Navia stated in his "Annals" that the city of Cusco received from Carlos I of Spain the monarch's own arms as King of Spain, which were displayed until 1540.
These arms were illustrated on a banner located at the head of the council hall of the Palace of the Cabildo until 1824 when it was donated to Simón Bolívar during his visit to Cusco.
The military leader sent the banner to Caracas, where it is preserved in the Historical Museum of that city.
In 1534, thanks to a donation made by the city to the king to finance the war in Flanders, Carlos I granted two heraldic eagles to be included in the city's shield.
These eagles, along with the fact that the city used the emperor's arms, supported the appellation of the city as the Imperial City.
On July 19, 1540, King Carlos I of Spain issued a Royal Decree qualifying Cusco as the "Most illustrious, most noble, loyal, and faithful city of Cusco, the most important and head of the kingdoms of Peru," adding the grant of a coat of arms:

In Madrid, on the 19th day of July in the year 1540, a Privilege of Arms was dispatched to the city of Cuzco in which a shield was granted, inside of which is a castle of gold on a red field, in memory of the fact that said city and its castle were conquered by force of arms in our service; and a border of eight condors, which are large birds resembling vultures found in the province of Peru, in memory of the fact that at the time the said city was conquered, these birds descended to feed on the dead who died there, which are on a gold field.- Signed by the Cardinal of Seville.- Countersigned by Sámano.- Signed by Dr.
Beltrán.
These arms were later ratified by Philip II of Spain according to the decree of May 5, 1593, and also by Carlos II on January 17, 1661, and by Carlos III in 1788.


Variations of the shield
In the 16th and 17th centuries, the city's granted coat of arms underwent variations, the most notable being the change of the castle to a tower.
The reasons for this change are varied, ranging from similar coats of arms granted to local residents to the intention of recreating Inca towers like those that existed in Sacsayhuamán or in the Huacaypata.
Another common variation was the removal of the border of condors, though the reasons for this change are not well-known.


Current coat of arms of Cusco

In a solemn session on June 23, 1986, the Provincial Council of Cusco signed Municipal Agreement No.
063 A/MC-SG-86 along with the Mayor of Cusco, Daniel Estrada Pérez, which decided to establish the disk known as the Sol de Echenique as the official coat of arms of Cusco.
Furthermore, it banned "all heraldic representations imposed by the conquest as the Coat of Arms of Cusco." This municipal agreement was published in the official newspaper El Peruano on July 2, 1986.
Various historians have questioned the choice of the Sol de Echenique as the emblem of Cusco.
As summarized by Cusqueño anthropologist Jorge Flores Ochoa in 1997, the plaque "is not Inca, it is not a sun...
neither is it from Cusco".


References


Sources
Angles Vargas, Víctor (1988).
Historia del Cusco Incaico Tomo I.
Lima: Industrialgrafica S.A.
Ramos Gómez, Luiz (2004).
"El motivo «torre» en el escudo de Cuzco y en los queros y otras vasijas andinas de madera de época colonial, del Museo de América (Madrid)".
Revista Española de Antropología Americana.
34: 134–186.

Gangchang
Gangchang may refer to:

Gangchang Park in Dalseo District, Daegu, South Korea
Gangchang station of Daegu Metro Line 2 also in Dalseo District
Three Fundamental Bonds and Five Constant Virtues of Confucianism, or gangchang (綱常) in Chinese

Big Road
Big Road is an album by the David Bromberg Band.
 It was released on CD, LP, and as a digital download on April 17, 2020.
 The CD also includes a DVD video of the band playing several of the songs on the album.
For Big Road, musician, singer, and songwriter David Bromberg and his touring band went into the studio and recorded a dozen roots music songs in a variety of styles.
 Bromberg sings lead vocals and plays acoustic guitar, electric guitar, and mandolin, accompanied on most of the tracks by his band as well as several guest musicians.
 Like his two previous albums, Big Road was produced by Larry Campbell.


Critical reception
In PopMatters, Steve Horowitz wrote, "The album does a good job of mixing things up stylistically while maintaining a consistent vibe.
The songs run together without ever sounding repetitive....
Big Road contains elements of old-time country, folk, bluegrass, gospel, blues and more....
Bromberg's singing is infectiously good, but it's his (and his bandmates) playing that makes the disc such a pleasure to hear."
In American Songwriter, Lee Zimmerman said, "With this latest offering, Big Road, credited, appropriately to the David Bromberg Band, he offers an excellent summation of his stance that spans the depth and breadth of his musical palette...Naturally, the arrangements are immaculate, given the oversight of producer Larry Campbell, although it’s Bromberg’s searing fretwork and warbling yet unassuming vocals that underscore the more poignant perspectives."
In Elmore Magazine, Iain Patience wrote, "Bromberg, a giant of US roots music with a back catalog of countless wonderful releases doesn’t disappoint with his latest offering...
With Big Road, we find Bromberg working with his band, while keeping his guitar picking absolutely central to everything he does....
Overall, this is one of those rare, instant classic albums, faultless in conception and delivery from start to finish.
This is Bromberg at his deservedly much-lauded best."
In No Depression, Doug Heselgrave said, "Since he released his first album in 1971, Bromberg has always embraced a 'kitchen sink' philosophy toward music in which every conceivable style – swing, folk, country, rock, bluegrass, and more – and permutation of a tune is treated with equal reverence....
 More than four decades into his career, he continues to breathe new life into very old songs by approaching them with the attitude that even though traditional music is sacred, it certainly isn't fragile...
Big Road is a truly masterful work."
In Folk Alley, Henry Carrigan said, "Listening to David Bromberg and his band's Big Road is like driving on the open road with the windows down, letting the breezes of various musical styles wash over you....
Multi-instrumentalist Bromberg knows how to have fun playing music, and he gives each of [his] band members a chance to drive the music around.
There's a joyous sense of camaraderie on the album that permeates the music...
 [E]very song on this album astonishes with its musicianship, its musical unity, its palpable spirit of joy and fun and sheer love of music.
Big Road is, without a doubt, one of the best albums of the year."
In Glide Magazine, Jim Hynes wrote, "[Bromberg's] vocals have never sounded better, and this band is as first-rate as it gets.
This is truly special; the apex of American music – blues, gospel, bluegrass, folk, and country all in one package....
 To appreciate the depth and breadth of this band's talent, it's best to listen to the whole recording to enjoy how they seamlessly cross genre boundaries....
David Bromberg is one of a few to earn the title 'Godfather of Americana' long before this recording yet it's as if the greatness of his half-century in music is all distilled into this superbly executed live studio album."


Track listing
"Big Road" (Tommy Johnson)
"Lovin' of the Game" (Pat Garvey, Victoria Garvey)
"Just Because You Didn't Answer" (Thomas Bishop Burke)
"George, Merle & Conway" (David Bromberg)
"Mary Jane" (unknown)
"Standing in the Need of Prayer" (Traditional, arranged by Bromberg)
"The Hills of Isle au Haut" (Gordon Bok)
Medley: "Maiden's Prayer" / "Blackberry Blossom" / "Katy Hill" (Bob Wills / Traditional, arranged by Nate Growler / Traditional, arranged by Bromberg)
"Diamond Lil" (Bromberg)
"Who Will the Next Fool Be?" (Charlie Rich)
"Take This Hammer" (Huddie Ledbetter)
"Roll On John" (Palmer Crisp, Margot Mayo)


Personnel
David Bromberg Band

David Bromberg – vocals, acoustic guitar, electric guitar, mandolin
Mark Cosgrove – electric guitar, acoustic guitar, mandolin, vocals
Nate Growler – fiddle, mandolin, vocals
Josh Kanusky – drums, vocals
Suavek Zaniesienko – bass guitar, double bass, vocals
Additional musicians

Dan Walker – piano, organ, accordion
Larry Campbell – pedal steel guitar, mandolin
Jon-Erik Kelso – trumpet
Birch Johnson – trombone
Mark Koza – tenor saxophone
Bob Stewart – tuba
Production

Produced by Larry Campbell
Recording, mixing – Justin Guip
Assistant engineers – Shubham Mondal, Ru Lemer
Mastering – Greg Calbi
Cover art – Kevin Morgan Studio


References

San Biagio, Nicosia
San Biagio (Saint Blaise) is a Roman Catholic church located on via Francesco Randazzo #24 in the town of Nicosia, in the province of Enna, region of Sicily, Italy.
 


History and description
A church at this site was built by 1433, adjacent to a Benedictine monastery.
It was enlarged and refurbished in 1698 and 1729.
A final restoration occurred in 2010-2011.
The exterior of the church is undistinguished flat with a large cornice over a rectangular stone portal.
After the late 19th-century suppression of the monasteries, part of this monastery was converted to private use, but a section was used as the local seminary for the bishopric until 1960.
The church has a single nave; the interior is richly decorated in late-Baroque stucco with gilded accents, completed by Serafino Perollo.
The main altar has five canvases completed by Giuseppe Velasco from 1772 to 1775:

St Blaise heals one sick with bubonic plague
Extasis of Ste Scholastica
Martyrdom of St Placidus and his companions
Presentation of Jesus at the temple
St Benedict topples the statue of Apollo
There is an altarpiece also on the topic of St Benedict by Velasco at the church of Concezione al Capo, Palermo.
Behind the canvas of St Blaise is an icon of the saint (1600) completed by Giovanni Battista Li Volsi, a sculptor native to Nicosia.
He also sculpted a Flagellation of Christ located in the church.
Housed in the church is a wooden tabernacle, originally from the church of Santa Maria di Gesù by either Pietro Bencivinni or a follower.


References

KHEW
KHEW 88.5 FM is a Community radio station, owned and operated by the Chippewa Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy's Reservation.
The station is licensed to the Rocky Boy's Reservation in Montana.


Reach of Station
The image inserted is a map showing the range of the KHEW radio station.

The map above comes from radio-locator.com
Simply, the red circle is the range where the station is easily heard on the radio, the purple is where it gets weaker, and blue is where you won't be able to hear anything unless you have a really good radio.


Classifications
88.5 FM is, under the FCC classifications, considered as C1.
The classification indicates the range of the station, C1 reaching 981 feet (299 meters).
KHEW is also considered as a Native American Radio Station as well as a community radio station.


Broadcasting
KHEW 885.
FM broadcasts a variety of genres, appealing to its audiences and the wide music tastes.
The station also broadcasts committee meetings and some pow wow music.


See also
List of community radio stations in the United States
Rocky Boy's Indian Reservation
Chippewa Cree tribe
Federal Communications Commission


References


External links
KHEW in the FCC FM station database
KHEW in Nielsen Audio's FM station database
KHEW in radio-locator
KHEW website

Obayifo
An obayifo is a vampire/witch-like mythological creature from West Africa coming from the folklore of the Ashanti.
In Ashanti folklore, obayifo are very common and may inhabit the bodies of any man or woman.
They are described as having shifty eyes and being obsessed with food.
When travelling at night they are said to emit a phosphorescent light from their armpits and anus.
The obayifo is known as a similar entity to the asiman by the Dahomey people, a creature that can shapeshift and fly, turning itself into a ball of light and hunting for prey in the night sky.


Origin
In Ashanti Twi, the word used to describe witchcraft is bayi.
Despite this, the etymology of bayi is still uncertain.
Another possible variation is oba meaning "child" and yi meaning to remove.
"To remove a child" in this case highlights a close association of infant mortality and fertility to the likes of witchcraft.
Alternatively, bayi also may have a history in representing blood or family lineage.
People, typically women, who practiced bayi turned into the obayifo.
Although obayifo is used to describe both the men and women who practiced bayi and turned into the monster, a distinction can be drawn between the men and women who practiced bayi, as obansam, meaning wizard, was a term used for the males exclusively as obayifo was sometimes only used for women exclusively.


Adaptations
Obayifo Project, 2024 film by Paco Arasanz


See also
Asanbosam
Adze
Soucouyant


References

Allman, Jean Marie, and John Parker.
Tongnaab: The History of a West African God.
Indiana University Press, 2006.



External links
Obayifo Project at IMDb: film adaptation by Paco Arasanz (2024)

Silver Chair
The Silver Chair is a 1953 children's novel by C.
S.
Lewis.
The Silver Chair can also refer to:

The Silver Chair, a 1990 BBC television programme based on the novel
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Silver Chair, a proposed film based on the novel
Silverchair, an Australian rock band

Presidential Elections Committee
The Presidential Elections Committee (PEC) is a six-member council set up by the Government of Singapore to ensure that each candidate running for the office of President of Singapore fulfils the stringent qualifications set out in Article 19 of the Constitution of Singapore.


Composition
The Presidential Elections Committee consists of:

Chairman of the Public Service Commission (PSC), who also serves as the Chairman of the Presidential Elections Committee (PEC)
Chairman of the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA)
a member of the Presidential Council for Minority Rights (PCMR), appointed by the Chairman of PCMR
a member or former member of the Council of Presidential Advisers (CPA), appointed by the Chairman of CPA, except for the sitting Chairman of CPA or a former member who vacated his seat under Article 37F(2)(a) or (c) of the Constitution
a person who is qualified to be or has been a Judge of the Supreme Court, appointed by the Chief Justice
a person, who in the opinion of the Prime Minister has expertise and experience acquired in the private sector that is relevant to the functions of the PEC, appointed by the Prime Minister
There is also a Community Committee, which will assess whether the candidate belongs to the specified ethnic community.


Criticism


Amount of discretionary power
Legal academic Valentine Winslow wrote that the committee has the power to reject anyone who does not have "integrity, good character, and reputation", and that this places too much discretionary power in the hands of a small group of persons, with no guarantee that they are qualified to judge others as being of integrity and good character, or are unbiased, as there is no provision for any independent election commission.
Constitutional lawyer Thio Li-ann wrote that the mechanism of selecting qualified candidates "removes the power of choice one step further away from the people, placing in the hands of an unelected group of people the power to decide who is a suitable candidate".


Decisions beyond judicial review
Thio observed that the committee is "not under a legal duty to give reasons for their decision, which is deficient as a process".


Opacity of decisions leading to embarrassment
Winslow suggested that there is an "embarrassment of uncertainty" for a candidate seeking nomination, because they may be rejected for reasons completely unclear to them, and that "men of eminence" will not agree to be nominated if they are likely to be humiliated by rejection.


Election Committees


2005 Presidential Election
The Presidential Elections Committee for the 2005 Singapore presidential election had three members:

Andrew Chew, Chairman
Lim Siong Guan
H R Hochstadt


2017 Presidential Election
The Presidential Elections Committee for the 2017 presidential election comprises six members.

Eddie Teo, Chairman of the Public Service Commission
Lim Soo Hoon, Chairwoman of the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority
Chan Heng Chee, Member of the Presidential Council for Minority Rights
Po'ad Shaik Abu Bakar Mattar, Member of the Council of Presidential Advisers
Tay Yong Kwang, Judge of the Court of Appeal
Peter Seah, Chairman of DBS Bank
The Community Committee is headed by Timothy James de Souza, a member of the Presidential Council of Minority Rights.


Malay community sub-committee
The Malay community sub-committee, which will issue the Malay Community Certificate to candidates, comprises five members.

Imram Mohamed, former Chairman of the Association of Muslim Professionals
Fatimah Azimullah, Advisor to the Singapore Muslim Women's Association
Mohammad Alami Musa, President of Majlis Ugama Islam Singapura
Yatiman Yusof, former Senior Parliamentary Secretary
Zulkifli Baharudin, Non-Resident Ambassador to Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, and Executive Chairman of Indo-Trans Corporation
All five were also on the Malay Community Committee that gave the green light to Malay candidates in Group Representation Constituencies (GRCs) in the 2015 general election.


2023 Presidential Election
The Presidential Elections Committee for the 2023 presidential election comprises six members.

Lee Tzu Yang, Chairman of the Public Service Commission
Ong Chong Tee, Chairman of the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority
Chan Heng Chee, Member of the Presidential Council for Minority Rights
Chua Thian Poh, Member of the Council of Presidential Advisers
Kannan Ramesh,  Judge of the Court of Appeal
Quentin Loh, Judge of the High Court
The Community Committee is headed by Edward D'Silva, a member of the Public Service Commission.


References

Heywood, Norfolk
Heywood is a civil parish in the English county of Norfolk.
It was formed in 2003 from a part of the parish of Diss.
It covers an area of 9.56 km2 (3.69 sq mi) and had a population of 175 in 63 households at the 2001 census, the population increasing to 222 in 79 households at the 2011 Census.
For the purposes of local government, it falls within the district of South Norfolk.


Notes

Corey Cadby
Corey Cadby (born 18 March 1995) is an Australian  professional darts player who formerly competed in Professional Darts Corporation (PDC) events.
He was the 2016 World Youth champion.


Career
A native of Tasmania, Cadby began competing in Darts Players Australia (DPA) events in 2016 after relocating to Melbourne.
He won seven events during his debut season on the DPA Australian Grand Prix circuit, and finished first in the rankings, thus securing qualification for the 2017 PDC World Championship.
In August 2016, Cadby lost 6–3 to 16-time world champion Phil Taylor in the first round of the Sydney Masters on his televised debut.
He played Taylor again a week later in the first round of the Perth Masters, winning 6–2 with an average of 103.58.
He went on to lose to Peter Wright 10–2 in the quarter-finals, with both players averaging 109.
In October, Cadby qualified for the final of the PDC World Youth Championship, defeating Dimitri Van den Bergh in the semi-finals.
The final was played in Minehead, England in November, as part of the last night of the Players Championship Finals and Cadby beat Berry van Peer 6–2 to secure the title.
Cadby won 2–0 in the preliminary round of the 2017 World Championship against China's Sun Qiang with an average of 102.48, a record for the prelims, to set up a first round tie with 28th seed Joe Cullen.
In a high quality contest, Cadby took the opening set, but went on to lose 1–3.
He took out six ton-plus finishes in the two matches he played.
In 2018, Corey competed at PDC Q School.
On the first day of play, Cadby defeated Callan Rydz 5–2 in the final four to secure his PDC Tour Card.
On 10 February 2018, Cadby won his first PDC title since winning his tour card the previous month in the 5th UK Open qualifier, defeating reigning World Champion Rob Cross in the final with an average of 108.77.
In 2019, Cadby made his PDC European Tour debut at the 2019 Czech Darts Open, defeating Wessel Nijman, Michael Smith and losing to Mervyn King.
After problems getting to the UK to play the ProTour, Cadby resigned his Tour Card at the start of 2020 despite being in the top 64.



2023
In 2023, Cadby returned to darts at Q–School to win back his tour card, which he managed to do with a 101 average in a win over Karel Sedláček in the Day 2 Final.
However, Cadby did not participate in any PDC darts events throughout 2023 and as a result of this the PDC removed his tour card in January 2024.


World Championship record


PDC
2017: First round (lost to Joe Cullen 1–3)


Performance timeline

PDC European Tour

PDC Players Championships


PDC career finals


PDC major finals: 1


PDC world series finals: 1


References


External links
Corey Cadby player profile at Darts Orakel

Pyreinoye gas field
The Pyreinoye gas field is a natural gas field located in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug.
It was discovered in 2006 and developed by and Novatek.
It began production in 2009 and produces natural gas and condensates.
The total proven reserves of the Pyreinoye gas field are around 681 Billion cubic feet (19.2 billion m3), and production is slated to be around 92.2 million cubic feet/day (260,000 m3/d) in 2010.


References

NCIS: Los Angeles season 4
The fourth season of NCIS: Los Angeles an American police procedural drama television series originally aired on CBS from September 25, 2012, to May 14, 2013.
The season was produced by Shane Brennan Productions and CBS Television Studios, with Shane Brennan as showrunner and executive producer.
The episodes, "Red" and "Red-2" were intended to be a backdoor pilot for a purposed series titled NCIS: Red associated with the NCIS franchise.
However, NCIS: Red was not picked up to series by CBS on May 15, 2013.


Cast and characters


Main
Chris O'Donnell as G.
Callen, NCIS Supervisory Special Agent (SSA) of the Office of Special Projects (O.S.P.) in Los Angeles
Daniela Ruah as Kensi Blye, NCIS Junior Field Agent
Eric Christian Olsen as Marty Deeks, L.A.P.D.
Detective and Liaison to NCIS
Barrett Foa as Eric Beale, NCIS Technical Operator
Renée Felice Smith as Nell Jones, NCIS Field Agent and Intelligence Analyst
Linda Hunt as Henrietta Lange, NCIS Supervisory Special Agent (SSA) and Operations Manager
LL Cool J as Sam Hanna, NCIS Senior Agent, Second in Command


Recurring
Kathleen Rose Perkins as Rose Schwartz, coroner in Los Angeles
Vyto Ruginis as Arkady Kolcheck
Peter Cambor as Nate Getz, NCIS Special Agent
Miguel Ferrer as Owen Granger, NCIS Assistant Director
Erik Palladino as Vostanik Sabatino
Aunjanue Ellis as Michelle Hanna, "Quinn", Sam's wife
Christopher Lambert as Marcel Janvier
Timothy V.
Murphy as Isaak Sidorov
Ravil Isyanov as Anatoli Kirkin
Alon Abutbul as Naseem Vaziri


Guests
Kim Raver as Paris Sumerskill, NCIS Special Agent in Charge (SAC) of the Red Team
John Corbett as Roy Haines, NCIS Senior Agent and Second in Command
Scott Grimes as Dave Flynn, NCIS Forensic Agent
Gillian Alexy as Clare Keates, NCIS Special Agent
Edwin Hodge as Kai Ashe, NCIS Tech Expert attached to the Red Team


Episodes


Production


Development
NCIS: Los Angeles was renewed for a fourth season on March 14, 2012.
In November 2012, NCIS: Los Angeles introduced a potential spin-off titled NCIS: Red.
Written and produced by Shane Brennan, the series would follow "a mobile team of agents who live and work together as they go across the country to solve crimes".
The pilot episodes, titled "Red" and "Red-2", which aired on March 19 and March 26, 2013, during the fourth season of the series.
On May 15, 2013, it was announced that NCIS: Red would not be picked up to series by CBS.


Broadcast
Season four of NCIS: Los Angeles premiered on September 25, 2012.


Reception


Ratings


Home video release


References


External links

NCIS: Los Angeles season 4 at IMDb

Chen Der-hwa
Chen Der-hwa (traditional Chinese: 陳德華; simplified Chinese: 陈德华; pinyin: Chén Déhuá) is a Taiwanese politician.
He was the Political Deputy Minister of Education from 22 October 2013 until 16 August 2014 with a brief stint as Minister of Education on 14–29 July 2014 after Chiang Wei-ling resigned due to alleged academic fraud.
His appointment to Political Deputy Minister had also come in the wake of the sudden resignation of another predecessor, Chen I-hsing.
He had been the Administrative Deputy Minister from June 2012 until October 2013.


Education
Chen graduated from National Taiwan Normal University with a bachelor's degree in 1983 and a master's degree in 1987.
He then earned his Ph.D.
from National Chengchi University in education in 2000.
His doctoral dissertation was titled, "A study on government policy of providing subsidies to private universities and colleges in Taiwan" (Chinese: 我國政府獎補助私立大學校院政策之研究).


Early career
Chen started his career in 1988 at the Ministry of Education by becoming the Section Chief of the Department of Higher Education in July 1988 until January 1994.
He then became the Senior Specialist of the Council of Academic Reviewal and Evaluation in January 1994 until December 1997.
Afterwards, he became the Deputy Director of the Department of Higher Education in December 1997 until May 2000.
In May-October 2000, he became the Senior Inspector of the Inspector Office.
In October 2000 until September 2002, he became the Director-General of the Department of Technological and Vocational Education.
He then became the Senior Inspector and Executive Secretary of the Educational Research Committee in September 2002 until May 2004.
Afterwards, he became the Director-General of the Department of Higher Education in May 2004 until March 2007.
Finally he became the Counselor of Counselors Office in March 2007 until June 2012.


References

The Ramen Girl
The Ramen Girl (ラーメンガール, Rāmengāru) is a 2008 romantic comedy-drama film starring Brittany Murphy about a girl who goes to Japan and decides to learn how to cook ramen.
Murphy also co-produced.


Plot
Abby is an American girl who goes to Tokyo to be with her boyfriend, Ethan.
Ethan tells her that he has to go to Osaka on a business trip and may not be back for a while.
Abby asks to go with him but Ethan refuses and breaks up with her.
Abby goes to a ramen shop afterward, and the chef Maezumi and his wife Reiko, who do not speak English, tell her that they are closed.
Abby does not understand Japanese and starts to cry, so the chef conveys to her to sit down.
He brings her a bowl of ramen, and she loves the meal.
A small distance away, she hallucinates that the lucky cat, known as the Maneki Neko, or Beckoning Cat, gestures to her to come over.
When she tries to pay for her meal, the chef and his wife refuse.
The next day she comes back and sits down at the counter.
He gives her another bowl of ramen and she eats.
As she eats, she breaks into uncontrollable giggles, as does another patron.
The following day she returns, but is told they are out of ramen.
Seeing the wife's swollen ankles, she insists on helping instead.
After the night is through, she is passed out asleep in the back.
They shoo her out, but as she is walking away she realizes she wants to cook ramen.
Rushing back into the store, she begs him to teach her how to cook ramen.
He argues, but finally gives in and tells her to come the next day at 5 am.
She shows up late, in high heels and a dress, and is put to work scrubbing the toilet and cleaning pots and pans.
In the following weeks Maezumi only gives her cleaning work in the hopes that she quits, but she comes back.
After she is given work as a waitress, she wins the hearts of all who come in, including two older women who are regular customers, and a male laborer regular in his 30s who develops a crush on her.
On a rare night off, she heads to a night club with a British man named Charlie and an American woman named Gretchen whom she met earlier.
The three meet Toshi Iwamoto (Sohee Park) and his friends.
Abby and Toshi fall in love.
Abby sees Maezumi crying over a collection of letters and photos from Paris.
When she asks him about it, he becomes angry and storms off.
His wife tells Abby that the photos are of their son, Shintaro, and that Maezumi and Shintaro have not spoken in 5 years since he left for France.
Toshi has to go to Shanghai for three years for business.
He asks Abby to come with him, but she declines, saying she can't.
They share their last kiss.
Abby soon learns how to make ramen, but Maezumi insists that it has no soul.
Maezumi's mother tastes her ramen and tells her, in Japanese, that she is cooking with her head; when Abby confesses that there is only pain in her heart, Maezumi's mother advises that she should put tears in her ramen.
Later, she is shown cooking ramen, crying.
She serves it to the two ladies and two young male customers.
Eventually, all four of them begin to cry, each for different personal reasons.
Maezumi tastes it, and starts to cry, but goes upstairs.
One day, Maezumi talks with a rival, who brags about his son having a master chef come to taste his ramen while ridiculing Maezumi for trying to train Abby.
Maezumi, drunk, says that her ramen will receive the Master Chef's blessing, or he'll stop making ramen.
The Master arrives, and tastes the young man's ramen, sampling small bits of it, very sparingly.
He gives him his blessing.
However, Abby has strayed from the safety of conventional ramen, and made hers with peppers, corn and tomato, a concoction she calls "Goddess Ramen".
The Master says Abby's noodles are good, but he cannot give her his blessing, saying that she needs more time and restraint.
Maezumi is sad to have to stop his business, but talks to Abby.
He tells her about his son wanting to learn French cooking, but she does not understand.
He tells her that the ramen shop needs a successor, and that she is the successor of his ramen shop.
She leaves for America soon, but before that, is invited to a celebration.
Maezumi gives her the lantern that had hung outside his ramen shop for 45 years, and she takes it to America with her, where it is shown a year later outside her shop in New York City, appropriately named The Ramen Girl.
The shop hangs a photo of Maezumi and his wife with their son happily in Paris.
An employee of hers tells her there is a man who wants to see her.
It is Toshi.
He says he hated his job and that he decided to do what she would do: quit his job and go back to what he loved – writing music.
She welcomes him to her ramen shop and they kiss.


Cast
Brittany Murphy as Abby, the main protagonist
Toshiyuki Nishida as Maezumi, Abby's Sensei, and the ramen chef
Sohee Park as Toshi Iwamoto, Abby's friend
Daniel Evans as Charlie, Abby's British friend
Tammy Blanchard as Gretchen, Abby's 'Southern' friend
Kimiko Yo as Reiko, Maezumi's wife
Tsutomu Yamazaki as Grand Master
Renji Ishibashi as Udagawa
Gabriel Mann as Ethan, Abby's boyfriend and later ex-boyfriend
Masayoshi Haneda as Yuki


Reception
Film critic Don Willmott describes The Ramen Girl as "a vacuous but atmospheric analysis of the redemptive power of a good bowl of noodles" in which "The Karate Kid meets Tampopo meets Babette's Feast."


References


External links
The Ramen Girl at IMDb

Ainslie Wood, London
Ainslie Wood  (previously known as Endleigh Wood and Little Larks) is a 2.03 hectares (5.0 acres)  Local Nature Reserve and a Grade I Site of Nature Conservation Interest surrounded by urban housing in Chingford in the London Borough of Waltham Forest in England.
It is owned by Waltham Forest Borough Council and operated by the council with Friends of Ainslie and Larks Woods.

The site is ancient woodland.
The main trees are oak, hornbeam and the rarer wild service tree.
The park hosts a great variety of birds, including great spotted woodpeckers, blue tits, great tits, robins, wrens, long tailed tits and jays.
The wildlife also includes squirrels and foxes.
It also has rich ground flora, including bluebells, dog's-mercury and wood anemone.
There is access from Royston Avenue, Ropers Avenue and Woodside Gardens.


References

